CITY CODE
of
TOMBSTONE, ARIZONA
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-05, passed 10-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Tombstone, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2024-05, passed October 8, 2024.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 01-72-73
Providing for the codification of the general ordinances of the city of
Tombstone, Arizona, and providing for the adoption of the official code of the
city.
Be It Ordained by the mayor and council of the city of Tombstone as follows:
   Section 1. That all ordinances of a general nature now in force in the city
of Tombstone, Arizona, as compiled and hereinafter set forth, be and they are
hereby adopted, passed, published and declared to be the compiled ordinances of
the city of Tombstone as provided for municipal codes according to section 9-
802 of the Arizona Revised Statutes, three (3) copies of which shall be filed
in the office of the clerk of the city and such shall be available for public
use and inspection.
   Section 2. That any person violating any of the provisions of any of said
ordinances of a general nature now in force in the city of Tombstone, Arizona,
as compiled and hereinafter set forth and as hereby adopted, passed, published
and declared to be the compiled ordinances of the city of Tombstone as provided
for in this city code, shall, upon conviction thereof be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished in cases where a different penalty is not
otherwise provided by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   Section 3. That whereas this ordinance, and all of said ordinances of a
general nature compiled and codified, as above stated, are urgently required
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health and safety of the city of
Tombstone, and it is necessary that this ordinance, and all of said ordinances
of a general nature compiled and codified as above stated shall immediately
become effective, an emergency is hereby declared to exist and this ordinance
shall take effect immediately upon its passage and adoption by the mayor and
council of the city of Tombstone.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the mayor and council of the city of Tombstone,
Arizona, this 27th day of July 1972.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4b8643cf6231f7db7a3a652ecbc5c4dd0af96b4a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1698.png]
 
CHARTER
No. 39   AN ACT
To incorporate the city of Tombstone, to define its limits and rights, to
specify its privileges and powers, and provide for an efficient government for
the same.
Be it enacted by the legislative assembly of the territory of Arizona:
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION AND CITY BOUNDARIES
   SECTION 1. The village of Tombstone is hereby constituted and formed into a
body-politic and corporate, with the name and style of "the city of Tombstone,
of the territory of Arizona." (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The boundaries of a said city shall be as follows:
Commencing at an initial monument, at the intersection of the center line of
Seventh street with the south side line of Tough Nut street, which monument is
more particularly described as follows: The monument is of granite, pyramidal
in shape, and two (2) feet square at the base, one (1) foot square at the apex,
and three feet high, showing one (1) foot above the ground. Upon the north face
is inscribed "Initial Monument City of Tombstone", and upon the south face,
"South Line of C. of T." Upon the apex is inscribed across, the lines of which
are on the true meridian, and their intersection is the point of beginning;
thence east one (1) mile, to a post ten (10) inches square and five (5) feet
long, three (3) feet of which shows above the ground, and which has inscribed
upon it, "S.E. Cor. City of Tombstone"; thence north one and one half (11/2)
miles to a post ten (10) inches square and five (5) feet long, three (3) feet
of which shows above the ground, and which has inscribed upon it, "N. E. Cor.
City of Tombstone;" thence west two (2) miles, to a post ten (10) inches square
and five (5) feet long, three (3) feet of which shows above the ground, and
which has inscribed on it, "N. W. Cor. City of Tombstone"; thence south two (2)
miles to a post ten (10) inches square and five (5) feet long, three (3) feet
of which shows above the ground, and which has inscribed upon it, "S. W. Cor.
City of Tombstone" thence east one (1) mile to a post ten (10) inches square
and five (5) feet high, three (3) feet of which shows above the ground; thence
north one half (1/2) of a mile to the place of beginning. (2-21-1881)
1923 Amendment To The Tombstone Charter:
   SECTION 1. That the limits of Tombstone, Arizona, be and the same is hereby
increased as follows, to wit:
Commencing at an initial monument at the intersection of the center line of
seventh street with the south line of Toughnut Street, which monument is more
particularly described as follows: The monument is of granite, pyramidal in
shape, and two (2) feet square at the base, one (1) foot square at the apex and
three (3) feet high showing one (1) foot above the ground. Upon the north face
is inscribed "Initial Monument City of Tombstone" and upon the south face,
"South Line of C. of T..” Upon the apex is inscribed a cross, the lines of
which are on the true meridian, and their intersection is the point of
beginning; thence south one hundred and fifty (150) feet to a monument of
stones; thence east one mile to a monument of stones; thence north one hundred
and fifty (150) feet to a monument of stones; thence one mile to the place of
beginning. (3-12-1923)
An act to enlarge the limits of the city of Tombstone:
Parts of sections 11 and 12, T 20 S., R. 22 E., G. & S. R. B & M, Cochise
County, state of Arizona, as follows:
Beginning at a point which is 150.0 feet south from the initial marker of the
Townsite of Tombstone, said point being a corner of the City of Tombstone:
Thence going east along the south boundary of the City of Tombstone; for one
mile to the southeast corner of the City of Tombstone; thence south for 2490.0
feet; thence west for one mile to a southeast corner of the City of Tombstone;
thence north along the east boundary of the City of Tombstone for 2490.0 feet
to the point of beginning; excluding there from the Houghton Patented Lode
Mining Claim. (Ord. 178, 3-23-1959)
That portion of Section 1, Township 20 South, Range 22 East of the Gila and
Salt River Base and Meridian, Cochise County, Arizona, more particularly
described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeast corner of said Section 1; thence South along the
East line of said Section I to a point 1370.60 feet North of the East quarter
corner of said Section 1; thence West, perpendicular to the East line of said
Section 1, 660.00 feet; thence South and parallel to the East line of said
Section 1, 907.90 feet to the southwest corner of that parcel of land conveyed
to James J. Reeves, etux., by deed recorded in Docket 628, page 35; thence East
parallel to South line of the Southeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of
Section 1, 660.00 feet to a point on the East line; thence South along the East
line of Section 1 to the Southeast corner of said Section; thence West along
the South line of Section 1, 1075.00 feet more or less to a point of
intersection with the existing Easterly boundary of the corporate limit line of
the City of Tombstone; thence Northerly along the said Easterly corporate limit
line to a point on the North line of said Section 1; thence East along the said
North line of Section 1, 1075.00 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 06-71-72, 4-28-1972)
ARTICLE II
GRANTS OF RIGHTS, POWERS, ETC.
   SECTION 1. Under a said corporate name the said corporation is declared a
public or municipal corporation, and by such name shall have perpetual
succession; may make or use a corporate seal, and change and alter the same at
pleasure; sue and be sued; plead and be impleaded in any and all the courts of
justice, and all actions, suits and proceedings whatever; may purchase, hold
and recover property, real and personal, or either, within or without the
limits of a said city, for any or all of the following purposes:
   First. For public buildings, public works and improvements for public parks,
and burial grounds, and cemeteries, or either.
   Second. For the establishment and maintenance of hospitals and asylums for
the care of the decrepit and invalid persons; persons affiliated with
contagious, loathsome or other diseases, or either.
   Third. For the erection and maintenance of jails, workhouses, and houses of
correction, or either.
   Fourth. For the purpose of establishing and constructing, maintaining and
operating of gas works, and distributing the same in pipes, or otherwise, into
and throughout said city, or either.
   Fifth. For the purpose of laying out and opening and widening or otherwise
improving streets, alleys, lanes, sidewalks and crosswalks within said city, or
either.
   Sixth. For the purpose of lying out, building and constructing sewers,
drains, cesspools, or either.
   Seventh. For the purpose of erecting, establishing and maintaining of public
schools, public library and poorhouse, or either.
   Eighth. For the purpose of constructing and maintaining a horse, steam or
cable railroad in said city, or either.
   Ninth. For any or all other public or municipal objects, as required for the
protection, benefit and convenience of said city and its inhabitants, and for
any and all such purposes and objects in this section enumerated or referred
to; the said corporation shall have the right, and is hereby empowered to
condemn any and all property required to be taken therefore, and to levy and
collect all assessments in the manner hereinafter provided, or as otherwise
provided by law. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The said corporation shall have the further power, and is hereby
further authorized through its officers or agents, as hereinafter provided, or
may hereinafter be prescribed by the ordinances, bylaws, resolutions, rules and
regulations of a said city, passed and adopted in pursuance hereof, to assess,
levy and collect each year, upon all property, both real and personal in said
city, and taxable under the laws of this territory, taxes for general municipal
purposes, which shall not exceed for any year the sum of one dollar on each one
hundred dollars worth of property, both real and personal, according to the
assessed value thereof within said city, and said corporation is also hereby
authorized and directed to assess, levy and collect each year, at the same
time, such other taxes as may be required to be imposed, levied and collected
by special act of the legislature, for the payment of interest and principal of
any of the funded indebtedness of a said city, if any there be. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. The said officers and agents, as hereinafter provided by the
ordinances, bylaws, rules, orders and regulations passed and adopted in
pursuance hereof, shall have the further power and are hereby authorized,
subject to the restrictions revisions and conditions herein contained, to
manage and control, to sell, lease or otherwise, accept by mortgage or
hypothecation, or as herein provided, dispose of any or all the property of a
said corporation, and to appropriate the proceeds, profits or other income
there from, to the use of said incorporation; provided, that no sale shall be
made by said corporation, under this section, excepting by ordinance duly
enacted, approved and published, at least once a week for eight consecutive
weeks, authorizing and directing said sale and the manner thereof, except in
case of the execution of deed for the quieting of equitable title, in which
case no ordinance shall be required. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. The mayor and common council shall have power, by ordinance, to
provide for the licensing, regulating, restraining, suppressing and
prohibiting, or either, any or all hawkers, peddlers, vendors of goods and
chattels, pawnbrokers, dance cellars or houses, melodeons, shows, showmen,
circuses, theatrical exhibitions, and all kinds of public amusements, whether
passage money is charged or not, billiard tables, bowling and ten pin alleys,
faro bank, gaming with cards, balls or dice, games of chance, gambling houses,
tables or stands, bawdy houses, the sale of spirituous or malt liquors in
quantities less than one quart, by keepers of saloons, or any other person or
persons, houses of prostitution or assignation, all keepers of restaurants,
taverns or innkeepers, all traveling merchants; all immoderate driving in any
of the streets, commons, lanes and alleys, to prevent encumbering the streets,
sidewalks, alleys or public ground; the apprehension and punishment of
disorderly or idle persons, drunkards and vagrants; the carrying of concealed
or deadly weapons, and the running at large of any, either or all animals, and
any and all noxious and offensive, immoral, indecent or disreputable places,
business and practices, or either, in a said city; and if licensed, to fix the
amount of license tax thereon, and to be paid as hereinafter provided; and
further, to license the carrying on and conducting of any and all trades,
callings and occupations and other business, by any person, natural or
artificial, within the corporate limits of a said city; to fix the amount of
license tax thereon, and to be paid by such person therefore, at such sums
respectively as the said mayor and common council shall think equitable and
just, and may, in the name and for the benefit of a said corporation, enforce
in such a manner as it sees proper to prescribe, the payment of such license
taxes by suit, either with or without attachment, in the recorder's court,
under the laws of this territory or by fine or imprisonment, or either/or in
such other manner as in said ordinance may be provided. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 5. The officers of the city of Tombstone shall be the mayor and
common council, one councilman from each ward of a said city now established or
hereafter to be established; one treasurer, who shall receive the monthly
salary of fifty dollars per month; one city attorney who shall receive the
monthly salary of fifty dollars per month, and the same fees as are allowed
district attorneys for like services; one chief of police, who shall receive
the monthly salary of one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month; one
auditor, who shall be ex officio recorder, ex officio clerk of the city
council, ex officio clerk of the board of equalization, ex officio clerk of the
board of police commissioners, and shall receive in full compensation for all
such services the monthly salary of ninety dollars; one assessor, who shall be
ex officio tax and license tax collector, health officer and street
commissioner, and shall receive a monthly salary of ninety dollars in full
compensation for all services. There shall also be two policemen (regular), at
a monthly salary of ninety dollars per month each, and as many additional
policemen as the board of police commissioners may think proper, and upon the
recommendation of the chief of police, who shall receive the same salary as the
regular policemen. All officers of a said city not herein mentioned are hereby
abolished, and all duties heretofore belonging or appertaining to the offices
hereby abolished shall devolve upon the officers as above named.
The mayor, councilmen, treasurer, attorney, chief of police, auditor, and
assessor last elected and now in each of said offices shall continue to hold
and occupy the same until the next general territorial election and until their
successors are elected and qualified, except the city attorney who was elected
to his office for two years.
   (Section 2.) The auditor of the said city of Tombstone is hereby authorized
and directed to draw warrants on the salary fund for each office in said act
mentioned, and for the amount specified in said act, said warrants to be drawn
on the first day of each month.
   (Section 3.) All warrants drawn by the auditor for salaries as provided for
by this act, shall be drawn on the said salary fund, and if at any time the
amount of money in the said fund is insufficient to pay the warrants so drawn
upon demand, the mayor and common council of said city are hereby authorized
and directed to transfer from the general fund of said city to said salary fund
so much money as may be necessary to pay said warrants.
   (Section 4.) The mayor and common council shall constitute the board of
equalization, a majority of the members of which shall constitute a quorum, who
shall have the same power and authority when sitting as a board of equalization
as is by law conferred upon the board of supervisors of the county of Cochise,
in relation to assessment and delinquent tax, and they may increase or decrease
any such assessment as they may think proper. The board of police commissioners
shall consist of the mayor and common council and chief of police, a majority
of whom shall constitute a quorum.
   (Section 5.) All policemen shall be appointed by the chief of police and
confirmed by the board of police commissioners; the chief of police may, at any
time, appoint as many special policemen as he may deem proper with the advice
and consent of the police commissioners, or any two members of said board, and
all such appointments shall not continue for a longer period than forty eight
hours from the time of such appointment.
   (Section 6.) The annual assessment for tax purposes shall be made between
the first day of March and the first day of May in each year, and the tax
levied by said city shall become delinquent on the twenty-fifth day of July in
each year. The mayor and common council shall sit as a board of equalization
between the first day of May and the first day of June in each year. Said city,
in addition to the mode now prescribed for the collection of delinquent taxes,
shall have the power to collect and enforce the collection and payment of such
delinquent taxes, now due or hereafter to become due, by suit or action to be
commenced in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name of "the mayor and
the common council of the city of Tombstone," and upon any judgment recovered
in such suit or action by said city, it is hereby authorized and empowered to
demand execution, under which execution the officer executing the same must
immediately levy upon and sell any property of such judgment debtor, to be
found in the county of Cochise, and the provisions of chapter XLVIII, of the
compiled laws of this territory and the amendments thereto are hereby made
applicable to proceedings in such suit or action, and the officer executing any
writs or executions, in such suits, shall proceed as in a said chapter provided
for, other sales of property under execution, except, that no property of the
judgment debtor, either real or personal, shall be exempt from such execution
and forced sales for any judgment so recovered by said city for taxes due the
same.
   (Section 7.) In any and all actions commenced by the said city, as in the
last section provided for, the defendant shall not be allowed to set up or show
any informality or irregularity in the levy or assessment of such taxes as a
defense. The defendant being allowed to plead only:
   First. That the taxes have been paid before suit; or,
   Second. That he was not the owner of and was not possessed of the property
mentioned in the complaint at the time of the assessment, and has never been
liable to pay, (sic) said taxes, as purchaser, incumbrancer or otherwise since
such assessment was made, but no answer shall be filed in any such case unless
the same be verified by the oath of the defendant.
   (Section 8.) The chief of police shall serve all summons and all other
process in any suit or action, or proceeding commenced by said city as above
provided, and shall execute all writs and executions therein and make all sales
thereunder, and do and perform all work or services required to be done or
performed by any officer in any such suit or action, and to this end he is
hereby authorized and empowered with the same authority as is vested in the
sheriff of Cochise County, and he shall be entitled to the same fees as the
said sheriff is allowed for serving process and making sales under executions,
his said fees to be collected of the defendant in such action, and to be
charged as costs therein, but in no case to have a charge against said city
therefore.
   (Section 9.) It shall be unlawful for the mayor or common council of said
city to purchase or sell any real estate without first having submitted the
question of purchasing or selling such property to a vote of the qualified
electors of the said city of Tombstone, and the said mayor and common council
are empowered to call for a vote of said electors upon any and all such
questions, such election to be governed by the laws of this territory relating
to general elections, as near as may be.
   (Section 10.) The recorder of said city shall not hear or enter into the
trial of any cases before him without first notifying the city attorney
thereof. (3-12-1885)
   SECTION 6. The common council shall consist of the mayor and four
councilmen, one councilman for each ward of the city as hereafter to be
established and designated by the common council, that will equalize, as nearly
as possible, the population in each ward by ordinances or resolutions and that
the common council have power to increase the number of wards and councilmen at
any time, not more than thirty or less than fifteen days prior to the general
municipal election and that the general municipal elections shall be held on
the first Tuesday of next January, and every two years thereafter, and that the
members of the council shall be residents of wards they represent and shall
have been a resident thereof at least thirty days prior thereto, and shall be
elected by the qualified electors residing in such wards respectively. All
other elective officers, except as herein otherwise provided and authorized,
shall be elected by the qualified electors at large residing in said city. (2-
21-1881)
ARTICLE III
   SECTION 1. Should any office become vacant by death or otherwise, before the
expiration of the term of the incumbent appointed to such office, it shall be
the duty of the mayor, with and subject to the consent and confirmation of the
common council, to appoint a suitable person to fill the same for such
unexpired term; provided, that in case any vacancy should occur in the office
of the mayor or any councilman herein provided to be elected by the electors of
this city, it shall be in the discretion of the common council to order a
special municipal election for the election of a successor to hold office for
such unexpired term, or such election may be postponed if no necessity for a
special election exist, until the next general municipal election. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The power and authority given to a said corporation by this act
is vested in a mayor and common council, and such other officers as may be
created, in pursuance of its provisions, and may be exercised by them
respectively as herein provided, or as may be prescribed by any ordinance, by-
law, resolution, rule or regulation, or either, enacted, passed or adopted in
pursuance of the terms of this charter, in the same manner and to the same
extent, and with the same authority as if thereunto specially authorized and
directed. (2-21-1881)
ARTICLE IV
RIGHTS, POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMON COUNCIL
   SECTION 1. The common council shall have power, and is hereby authorized for
and in behalf of such corporation, by ordinances or resolutions, in writing, to
make regulations to prevent the introduction or spreading of any loathsome,
contagious and other diseases into the city; to make regulations and provisions
for the removal of the person afflicted with any contagious or loathsome
disease to the hospital provided and prepared by the city or other party for
that purpose; to provide for the care, protection and support of the indigent
sick in a said city, to secure the protection of persons and property within a
said city, and to provide for the health, cleanliness, peace and good order of
the city and its inhabitants, or persons residing within its limits; to declare
what constitutes a nuisance, and to provide for the prevention, removal or
abatement of any and all nuisances within a said city; to provide the city with
wholesome water, and to that end, for that purpose, may exercise, use, enjoy
and carry out in the name of a said corporation, any and all measures requisite
and necessary therefore; powers to perform which is given said corporation by
the provisions of section 1, article II. Also, to provide for the lighting of
streets and public buildings belonging to the city, with gas or light for the
use of any other material or substance, and to that end, and for that purpose,
may exercise, use and enjoy, and carry out in the name of a said corporation
any and all measures requisite and necessary therefore, powers to perform which
is given said corporation by the provisions of said section 1 of article II of
this act. Also, by ordinance or resolution in writing, to lay out and open
public streets within a said city, at such times and in such manner as to it
shall seem proper, to vacate, to extend, widen and improve the same, to lay out
and construct, change and alter sewers and water ditches in a said city, or
without the limits of a said city, when required to conduct the sewerage
flowing into the sewers to cesspools or other places of deposit thereof, and to
these ends and for that purpose, or either, to exercise, use, enjoy and carry
out any and all measures requisite and necessary for said purposes or either,
power to perform which is given said corporation by the provisions of said
section 1 of article II of this act. Also, to provide for and maintain, out of
the general fund of a said city, a proper and efficient fire department, and to
make and adopt such measures, rules or regulations for the prevention and
extinguishment of fires, and for the preservation of property endangered
thereby, as the common council may think best; also, by resolution, in writing
or otherwise, to provide against the existence of all filth, garbage, or other
injurious or inconvenient matter, substances or things within or along the
water ditches, streets, sidewalks and crosswalks, private lots, yards or
premises, or either, in a said city, and for the removal of such substances and
things, or either, there from, and may make such ordinance, rules, regulations,
and adopt such measures therefore as to them may seem best; also, to provide
for, regulate, restrain, or prohibit the establishment of market houses and
places, slaughter houses and butcher shops, or either, and may make such
ordinances, rules and regulations for the management and control of such places
as it may seem best; also, by ordinances or resolutions in writing to
redistrict and redivide the said city into as many wards as they may deem
proper, and in such a manner as to the common council may seem best calculated
to equalize as nearly as possible the population to each ward, and may
establish, alter and change the same at pleasure, when, in their opinion
requisite to accomplish such end; provided, the same is done not less than
fifteen nor more than thirty days before the general municipal election; also,
to make such provision for the care and custody of all parties sentenced to
confinement or imprisonment, as they may see proper; also, by ordinance or
resolution, in writing, to regulate the keeping or storage of gunpowder, and
any and all other inflammable or combustible materials within the limits of a
said city or any portion thereof; also, to establish, fix, allow and prescribe
and regulate the salaries, fees, and compensation of all officers and employees
of this corporation; also, except as herein otherwise provided to exercise, use
and carry out all authority vested in said corporation, by section 1 of article
II of this act, and to manage and control said property in such ways as it may
seem best; also, except otherwise restricted, upon motion or otherwise, to
appropriate money to pay the debts, liabilities and expenditures of the city,
or any part or item thereof; also, to provide for the surveys of the blocks,
streets or lands within the limits of a said city and to declare such surveys
official, and compel all persons to conform to the lines of said streets, as
now are or may be hereafter established; also, to provide for the management
and preservation of the records, papers and archives of a said city and also to
exercise and carry out and execute such other power and authority as given to a
said corporation by this act, either expressly or by implication, and not
otherwise specially delegated, and to make pass and adopt for such purposes,
such laws, rules and regulations as shall be necessary therefore. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The common council shall, annually, at the regular meeting
appointed by this act, or as soon thereafter as possible, elect a suitable
person, other than a member of the council to be the city auditor, who shall
also be ex officio clerk of the common council; such auditor shall perform all
the duties required by him by this act, and by an ordinance regulations or
order of the common council. He shall be present at each meeting of the common
council, and keep a record of its proceedings, and shall have the care and
custody of all books and papers belonging to the said city he shall, on or
before the first Tuesday in January, in each year, make an estimate, under the
supervision of the mayor, of the revenue of the city for the fiscal year about
to commence, which estimate shall be approved by the mayor and presented to the
common council. He shall number and keep a record of all demands approved by
him, showing the number and date of approval, amount and name of the original
holder, on what account, and the fund out of which it is payable. He shall at
all times be acquainted with the exact condition of the city treasury, and
shall report to the common council, at each regular meeting, the condition of
each fund in the city treasury, and the amount of funds drawn on each fund
since the previous meeting. He shall keep a complete set of books, in which
shall be set forth in a plain and businesslike manner every money transaction
of the city, so that he can at any time know and report upon the state of such
fund, from what source the money was derived, and for what purpose any money
was expended, and all collections made and paid into the treasury by each
officer; and he shall issue all licenses (countersigned by the mayor), and
countersign all warrants on the treasury. The said auditor shall otherwise be
under the control of said common council, and may for good cause shown be
removed by it at any time, and another person elected by said common council in
his stead. The common council shall, upon the call of any member, cause the
ayes and nays to be taken upon any question before it and entered upon the
journal. All proceedings and deliberations of the common council shall be
public. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. Within seven days, including Sunday and other legal holidays,
after the completion of the canvassing by the common council of the vote cast
at any general municipal election of the members of the common council, there
shall be held meetings of the common council, such meeting as appointed by this
act, and no notice thereof is necessary. The common councils of which the terms
of the whole or part of the members are about to expire, shall meet, approve
the records of its session then unapproved, receive communications and reports
of committees, and, in its discretion and at its option, act upon all
unfinished business then before the common council, and adjourn sine die.
Immediately thereafter the members of the common council elected at the last
election, and the members holding over under this act shall convene, and
proceed then, or at any subsequent time, to elect the mayor the presiding
officer, who shall be known as the president of the common council, and shall
make such further organization as it shall seem proper to form, not
inconsistent with this act. After such organization it may at any time proceed
with the transaction of the business of the common council, including all
unfinished business; provided, if from any cause, the said meeting referred to
in this section is not held on the day hereby appointed, the same may
thereafter be called by the mayor for any other time, as herein provided for
special meetings of the common council, the notices in such case to be served
not only upon all members of the common council, also upon all members elect
thereof. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. The common council shall have power, and is hereby authorized by
resolution, in writing, to be entered upon its minutes, to provide for the time
and place of its other regular meetings, but it may, upon motion, at any
regular, special or adjourned meeting, adjourn to the next succeeding regular
meeting or to any specified time prior thereto. Special meetings of the common
council may be called by the president of the common council at any time,
whether for the transaction of special or adjourned business, and the notice
thereof, signed by the president, specifying the object; if special, it shall
be personally served upon each member of the common council, or shall be served
by leaving a copy of the same at his place of business, if served between the
hours of seven o'clock A. M. and five o'clock P. M. when such place of business
is known, or if not, or if served at any other time, by leaving a copy thereof
at his residence or domicile. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 5. A majority of the members of the common council shall be a quorum
to do business, but any less number shall meet and adjourn from time to time,
and may compel the attendance of absent members in any manner prescribed by the
rules of the common council. The president of the common council shall be
entitled to vote upon every question, and shall have the power and authority to
preserve order, enforce the rules of the common council, and determine the
order of business, subject to the rules of an appeal to the common council. In
the absence of the president, the common council shall have power to appoint
one of its members president pro tem, who shall have the rights and powers of
said president. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 6. The common council shall have power to punish any member, or
other person, by fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, by imprisonment in the
county jail, or other place of confinement, not exceeding ten days, for
disorderly or improper conduct committed in their presence when in session at
any meeting; and may in addition to the enforcement of their fines and other
penalties, provided therefore, by a majority vote, expel a member for the
breach of its rules and regulations, and declare his seat vacant. If any member
of the common council shall, without leave of absence, duly granted by motion,
be absent for four consecutive regular meetings of said common council, his
seat and office shall thereupon be and become vacant. It shall be the duty of
the clerk of the said common council forthwith to notify the common council of
such vacancy. The concurrence of a majority of a quorum is a sufficient
majority to determine any question or matter. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 7. The mayor and common council shall (after the approval of the
city attorney) approve, by motion or resolution, all official and other bonds,
which by this act are, or by the ordinances, resolutions or orders of said
common council may be required to be given by any officer, contractor or other
employee of a said corporation, and upon all such bonds, when approved as
aforesaid, shall be forthwith endorsed by the clerk a memorandum setting forth
such approval with the date thereof, which memorandum shall thereupon be signed
by the president of the common council and city attorney, and the bonds shall
then be forthwith filed by the clerk of the common council in his office. (2-
21-1881)
ARTICLE V.
OTHER OFFICERS, THEIR POWERS AND DUTIES
   SECTION 1. The mayor is the executive officer of the corporation, and must
exercise a careful supervision over all its affairs and subordinate officers;
it is his duty annually at the meeting of the common council, appointed by
section 3 of article IV of this act, to communicate by message to the common
council a general statement of the condition and affairs of the corporation, in
which he shall include the report of the auditor, provided to be made in
article IV, section 2, of this act, and to recommend the adoption of such
measures as he may deem expedient and proper, and to make such special
communications to the common council from time to time, as he shall deem
expedient to exercise a constant supervision over the acts and conduct of all
its officers and employees; to receive and examine into all complaints made
against them for violation or neglect of duty, and certify the same to the
common council who shall receive and refer the same to a committee of three of
its members to hear the evidence and report to the common council as soon as
practicable, whether the accused party be guilty or innocent. If the accused
party be found guilty, the common council shall prescribe the punishment, which
punishment may be suspension for any time less than sixty days, or removal from
office or position. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. If at any time, owing to absence from the city, sickness or any
other cause, the mayor shall be unable to perform the duties of his office, he
shall notify the common council thereof at its first meeting thereafter, and in
such case one of the councilmen shall be and become, upon resolution, mayor pro
tem., and shall perform and discharge in the same manner and with like power
and affect any and all of the duties of the mayor until the meeting of the
common council at which the mayor shall notify them of his readiness to resume
the discharge of his office. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. It shall be the duty of the city attorney to prosecute in behalf
of the mayor and common council of the city of Tombstone all criminal cases of
or violation of city ordinances and resolutions pending in the recorder's
court, and in all other courts upon appeal thereto and to attend to all suits,
matters and things in which the city may legally be interested; to give his
advice or opinion in writing whenever required by the mayor or common council,
and to do and perform all such things touching his office as by the common
council may be required of him. The city attorney shall draft and approve the
form of all official and other bonds required by this act, or any ordinance,
resolution, motion or order of the common council before the same are submitted
to the common council or mayor for final approval as hereinbefore provided, and
no such bond shall be approved by the mayor or common council until the city
attorney shall signify his approval of the form of such bonds. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. It shall be the duty of the chief of police during the
continuance of such office, in addition to the duties prescribed to him by the
ordinances, bylaws, resolutions, rules and regulations of said city authorities
to execute and return all processes issued by the recorder's court or judge
thereof or directed to him by any legal authority; to attend upon the
recorder's court regularly; to arrest all persons guilty of breach of the peace
or of any violation of any ordinance or bylaw, resolution, rule, or regulation
of said municipal authorities, and bring them before the recorder's court or
other proper court for trial. He shall possess a superintending control,
subject to the board of police commissioners over the city police. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 5. It shall be the duty of the city assessor, in addition to any
duty that may be prescribed for him by ordinance, resolution, bylaw, rule or
regulation of the said common council of said city, to make out, within such
time as may be prescribed by the ordinance of a said city, either now in force
or which may hereafter be passed in pursuance hereof, a full, true and correct
list of all the property, both real and personal, taxable by law within the
limits of a said city, with the valuation thereof. After the general municipal
election to be held on the first Tuesday of January, and each year thereafter,
it shall be the duty of the assessor to collect the taxes of all personal
property when the owner of said property is not seized of real estate in a said
city sufficient to afford ample security for the collection of said taxes. In
all such cases he shall be governed in fixing the amount of the tax by the rate
of a tax levy for the preceding year. Immediately after fixing the assessment
on such property he shall serve upon the owner or owners a notice in writing,
which shall specify the assessed valuation of the property, the rate per cent,
and the amount of the tax payable, and contain a demand for the payment of said
tax within three days after the service of said notice. Said notice shall be
served personally, or by leaving a copy of the same at the last known place of
residence of the person whose property is so assessed; upon expiration of said
three days after such service, if the tax demand still remains unpaid, or
payment thereof is not secured to the satisfaction of the city attorney and the
city assessor, the assessor shall forthwith proceed to collect the same by
seizure and sale of any personal property owned by the delinquent. The said
sale shall be made in accordance with the ordinances of said common council of
the said city, as hereafter prescribed when the rate is fixed for the year in
which such collection is made; then if a sum in excess of a said rate has been
collected, the excess must be repaid on motion of the common council to the
person from whom the collection was made, or to his assignee, and if a sum less
than the rate fixed has been collected, the deficient amount must be collected
as other taxes on personal property are collected. Should the board of
equalization reduce the valuation for the same year of the property so
assessed, the sum collected in excess of said reduced valuation must be repaid
to the person from whom the collection was made or his assignee. And if the
valuation of said property should be increased by said board, then the
deficiency must be collected as other taxes on personal property are collected.
The assessor shall carefully note upon his assessment list, and also upon a
book to be by him kept for that purpose, all collections made by him under this
section, and shall turn over to the city treasurer all money received, within
ten days after its receipt. In case the said assessor shall fail to demand and
collect any and all taxes, which by this section he is directed to collect; he
shall be and become personally liable to the city for the amount of said
delinquent and unpaid taxes, with interest from the date of their assessment.
To recover the same the common council is authorized and directed to cause
proper action or actions at low to be brought against said assessor and the
parties on his official bond. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 6. The mode of making out such assessment lists, of ascertaining the
value of property and equalizing the same, shall be such as is now, or may
hereafter be, prescribed by the ordinances of the common council of said city.
When such list has been made out, and the same is returned to the common
council as prescribed by such ordinances the mayor and common council shall at
the time and in the manner prescribed in such ordinances, sit and act as a
board of equalization unless herein otherwise provided, and shall have, as
regards the equalization of a said list, all the powers conferred by law upon
the board of supervisors, of Cochise County, as a board of equalization of
territory and county taxes. The meetings of said board shall be public, and
notice of such meetings shall be given by publication at such time and in such
manner as shall be provided by ordinance. The whole of a said assessment list
shall be publicly read during the session of said board. The said board shall
have power, in its discretion, to increase or diminish the amount of any or all
of the assessments on a said list both as to the real and personal property;
provided, that before any such assessment shall be increased due notice shall
be given to the owner or owners of the property, the assessed value of which is
sought to be increased, and such owner or owners shall have opportunity to be
heard before the board under oath. Such notice to be regulated in all respects
by ordinance. After such list has been equalized, it shall be returned to the
common council which shall forthwith fix the levy or rate per cent of taxes
levied for all municipal purposes for that fiscal year. Every tax so levied
shall have the force and effect of a judgment against the person and property
taxed, and shall be and constitute from the date of such levy, of the rate of
per cent, a lien upon the real property situated in a said city, so assessed or
owned by the party against whom such assessment is made. Every such assessment
and the lien thereof shall have the force and effect of an execution duly
levied upon all property owned by the party assessed or by the unknown owner of
such property when assessed to an unknown owner. The judgment is not satisfied
nor discharged until all the taxes assessed against the property and the owners
are paid, or the property sold, for the payment thereof. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 7. The said corporation shall have such other rights, claims,
privileges and liens for the amount of such municipal taxes as may now or
hereafter be given to or exercise by the people of this territory for and on
account of the assessment of territorial and county taxes levied in a said
county. The mode and manner of collecting such municipal taxes and enforcing
such tax lien and proceedings thereafter shall substantially be the same as the
mode and manner at the time prescribed by law for the collection of territorial
and county taxes; provided, however, that the common council may by ordinance
have the power to regulate the time or times of the collection of said taxes
within each fiscal year, and prescribe by what officers the respective duties
appertaining to such collection and enforcement shall be performed; all such
proceedings, sales, certificates and conveyances had made and executed by them,
in pursuance thereof, shall be of like force, effect and validity as is or may
hereafter be given by law to such proceedings and acts in the matter of the
collection of territorial and county taxes in a said county. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 8. It shall be the duty of the city tax collector, in addition to
the duties that may be prescribed for him by any ordinance, resolution, motion,
bylaw, rule or regulation of the common council of said city, to receive and
collect all taxes, licenses and revenues of the city, and pay the same over to
the treasurer, as directed by ordinance to keep a book which shall contain a
record of every deed given by or on behalf of the city for real estate sold for
delinquent taxes or assessments, which book shall be properly indexed, and
shall be at all suitable times subject to the public inspection and reference.
(2-21-1881)
   SECTION 9. It shall be the duty of the treasurer, unless otherwise provided
by or in pursuance of this act, to receive all money that shall come to a said
city, either by taxation or otherwise, and to pay the same out on warrants
legally ordered by the common council, drawn and signed by the auditor and
countersigned by the mayor, and to do and perform all such other acts as may be
prescribed to him by this act, any city ordinances, or by the common council of
said city. He shall on the first day of January, April, July and October of
each year, and at any other time when required by the common council, make out
and present to the common council a full and complete statement of the receipts
and expenditures since his last report, which statement the common council
shall cause to be published. The finance committee, or any special committee of
the common council thereto appointed by themselves, or with the aid of any
accountant selected by said committee, shall have the right and power to
examine the books of the treasurer, and to inspect and count all public moneys
under his control, or on deposit elsewhere. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 10. The recorder's court of said city, as to all offenses committed
within such limits, to which the jurisdiction of said court by this act is
declared to extend, whether against the laws of this territory, or the
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of this city, shall have the
same jurisdiction, power and authority as is now or may be hereafter conferred
upon justices of the peace or justices courts, in and for said townships,
whereof said city may form a whole or a part, and in any of such cases shall
have the same power and authority to examine and discharge or commit persons
brought before it and charged with the commission of any such offense. The
judge thereof may take recognizance to appear, bonds to keep the peace, and may
issue all writs and processes in like manner, and to the same extent and with
the same power and authority as is now or may hereafter be conferred upon said
justices of the peace, or upon said justices' courts in such cases, or either
of them. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 11. The recorder's court, except as herein otherwise provided, shall
also have jurisdiction over violations of any ordinance, by-law or resolution
of any authorities of a said city, committed within the limits of a said city,
and may, according to the provisions of such ordinances, by-law, resolution or
regulation, hold to bail, fine and imprisonment, or either, any person found
guilty of such violation. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 12. All prosecutions brought before the said court for the violation
of any ordinance, resolution, bylaw, rule or regulation of any of the
authorities of a said city, shall be brought and prosecuted in the name of the
mayor and common council of the city of Tombstone. In case of the absence from
the city, or the inability to act of the recorder, he may select and deputize
any one of the justices of the peace in said city to act in his place as judge
of said court, which justice, during the time of his substitution, shall have
the same power and perform the same duties as the said judge of said court. But
the said substituted justice shall receive no pay or compensation from the city
for his services. All fines collected in said court shall be paid by said judge
into the city treasury, and placed to the credit of the salary fund. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 13. The chief of police shall perform such duties as shall be
prescribed to him by ordinance, resolution or order of said city authorities.
(2-21-1881)
ARTICLE VI
PROCEEDINGS TO CONDEMN PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC USE
   SECTION 1. Whenever it shall become necessary for the said corporation to
take private property for any municipal or public use, the common council may,
by ordinance direct proceedings to be taken for the condemnation of such
property, and to ascertain the compensation to be paid therefore, and state in
the ordinance the lines and how far the assessment shall extend to pay for
damages sustained by said improvements; and, provided, that if within twenty
(20) days from the publication of such ordinance, the owners of the property
fronting along the street or streets embraced within the limits to be assessed
amounting to two-thirds of the said frontage, shall make and file with the
clerk of the common council, a written remonstrance against the proposed
improvements, thereupon the same shall not be further proceeded with or made.
For that purpose a petition in the name of the corporation, signed by its
attorney, shall be presented to the superior or county court of said Cochise
County, if any there be, if none, then the district court of the county in
which said city is located, at a regular or special term thereof, stating the
object for which the said property sought to be condemned is required
particularly, describing the property, and praying for the appointment of
commissioners to ascertain the amount of compensation to be made to the owner
and other parties of interest therein named in the petition for an account of
the taking thereof, for the proposed public use. If several pieces of property
or parts of several pieces of property, whether owned by the same or different
owners, be required for the same object or public use, all or any part less
than all may be embraced in one proceeding, or separate proceedings may be
commenced against each respectively. Whenever any proceeding has been commenced
jointly against two or more parties, the corporation shall have the right at
any time to dismiss such proceedings as to anyone or more of such parties and
proceed as against the remainder. Notice of the time and place at which such
petition will be presented to the said court, signed by the city attorney,
shall be given to the owners of such property and all other parties in
interest. Such notice shall state generally the object of the proceedings and
the property sought to be taken, and may refer for all particulars to the
petition which must be on file in the office of the clerk of said court at the
time of said notice. If the services upon any party are made within the county,
the notice shall be served upon him by delivering to him personally a copy of
such notice at least ten days before the time appointed for the presentation of
the petition. If the owner or other party be a nonresident of the county, or
cannot be found within the county, service may be made upon him by publication
of a copy of the notice once a week for two weeks in some newspaper printed and
published in the city. The publication shall be completed at least five (5)
days before the presentation of the petition to the said court. The notice
shall in all other respects be served and returned as may be provided by the
laws of the territory, for the service and return of a summons in civil actions
pending in the said court of said county; provided, that in case of a
publication no order of publication shall be required, nor shall it be
necessary to file any paper or copy of any papers in the office of the
secretary of the territory. Proof of service of such notice by publication
shall be by affidavit of the proprietor, publisher, bookkeeper, or other person
connected with the publication of the paper in which such notice shall be
given. But in all cases, whether the parties in interest are known or unknown,
the publication once a week for two (2) weeks in some newspaper printed and
published in the city of a notice correctly describing the property sought to
be taken and the proof of such publication as aforesaid shall be sufficient
notice to all parties in interest and sufficient proof thereof. Such notice may
be addressed to the parties in interest by name, or to unknown owners, or both.
If service is not had upon all the parties as above provided, before the time
applied for the hearing, the court may continue the hearing from time to time
not exceeding thirty days for services upon such parties not served. In all
such proceedings a notice of lis pendens may be filed at the time of filing the
petition, or any time thereafter, the same to be filed in like manner, and with
like affect as in other cases under the laws of this territory. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The court before hearing the applications shall have satisfactory
evidence that such notice has been given, as above provided, to all parties,
and when so satisfied, the court shall, by entry in its minutes, appoint three
(3) disinterested persons commissioners, to ascertain the compensation,
specifying in the entry the time and place for the first meeting of the
commissioners. The commissioners shall be residents of the said city, and shall
be sworn to discharge their duties faithfully and impartially. They, or a
majority of them, shall view the premises and ascertain and report, in writing,
to the court, as soon as practicable, the compensation proper to be paid to the
parties interested in each piece of property sought to be taken, and in case a
new line of a street would leave a strip of land lying between the old and such
new line, then said the strip is to be vacated by the city and become a part of
the lot of land upon which it abuts, and in case a strip falls between two or
more owners, then such a division of the land shall be made so that each owner
shall have the same frontage on the new line as he had on the old. If anyone or
more commissioners fail to qualify, or thereafter be prevented from acting the
court may at any time appoint one or more commissioners. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. If no objections in writing have been filed with the clerk of the
court, by petition or by any of the other parties in interest, within five (5)
days after the filing of the report, the court shall, by an order to be entered
in the minutes of the court, confirm the report of the commissioners. If such
objection to the report of the commissioners is filed by any party, as above
provided, the court may at any time thereafter proceed to hear and determine
the same and the evidence of the witnesses produced in support of the
objections and in opposition thereto respectively, and may, if it thinks the
report informal, refer the same back to the commissioners for correction as to
form, and may, if it thinks the compensation to be either excessive or
inadequate, set aside the report and refer the matter again to the same or
other commissioners. The second report shall be made, heard and determined as
above provided, and the court shall have the power to set the same aside and
cause another report to be made. When the third report of commissioners on the
same matter shall have been made to the court, and the court shall find the
said report formal in all respects, the said report shall be final and
conclusive as to the amount of compensation therein found, and it shall be the
duty of the court upon its presentation to confirm the same. But if the report
shall be defective or informal as to its form the court shall refer back the
same to said commissioners for correction as to form only, until a formal
report shall have been re-returned to the court; provided, that when a report
shall be referred back to a commission for correction, as to form only, the
members of said commission shall not receive any compensation for their
services in correcting the form of a said report. It shall be the duty of the
court, in referring back reports of the commissioners, to indicate clearly when
in the judgment of the court the said reports are informal, defective, unjust
or erroneous. The court, when satisfied with the report of the commissioners
and the compensation awarded, or upon presentation of the third report, as
hereinbefore provided, shall confirm the same as above provided. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. Whenever any proceeding for the condemnation of property for the
opening of new streets, the extending or prolongation of streets, or the
widening or straightening of streets in a said city, or for any other purpose,
when the damages are to be paid by assessments upon the property benefitted, is
instituted, the report of the commissioners filed and the order of condemnation
has been made, entered by the court, and any damage or damages have been
awarded to the owners of such property so taken, or to other parties in
interest, it shall be the duty of the city attorney, within thirty (30) days
thereafter, to procure from the clerk of the court of said county a certified
copy of the report of said commissioners in such proceedings, and of the orders
of condemnation made and entered by the court therein, and submit the same to
the common council, at any meeting thereof within twenty (20) days from the
expiration of the said thirty (30) days. The common council shall apportion the
damages awarded in such proceedings amongst the owners of real property liable
to be assessed therefore, and having by motion adopted such assessment, shall
then order the clerk of the common council to enter and record in the docket of
the city liens hereinafter referred to the said assessment of damages against
said owners of the property liable therefore, respectively. Such records shall
substantially contain the same entries as is required by section 9 of article
VII of this act, in the assessment of property for grading and other street
improvements, and shall be and constitute a lien upon the property assessed
therefore. After such entry has been made in the docket of city liens, if the
said assessment is not paid by the several parties therefore within thirty (30)
days, the clerk of the common council shall issue warrants thereon, directed to
the city tax collector, or other officer performing the duties of city tax
collector, and commanding him to sell the said property liable therefore. Such
warrant shall be executed and returned, and all subsequent proceedings shall be
taken in the same manner, and with like force and effect, as provided by
article VII of this act, for the enforcement of liens upon property for grading
or otherwise improving the streets in a said city. All costs of surveys, maps,
commissioners fees, costs of courts and other expenses, except damages allowed
to the parties in interest shall be paid out of the general fund of the city;
provided, that all costs and other expenses incurred in opposition to any
petition or report, or in any proceedings for the review of any order shall be
paid by the party against whom the decision thereon may be rendered. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 5. The court shall, at any time, or proof being made that the
respective amount of damages awarded and confirmed to the parties in interest
have been paid to them or into court, shall cause an order to be entered in the
minutes describing the property, setting forth the ascertainment of
compensation, and the payment as aforesaid, and adjudging and decreeing that
the said corporations have, hold and enjoy the said property, for public use,
as prayed for in the petition. Upon the entry of the order of condemnation
being made by the court, the corporation shall be entitled to have, hold, use
and enjoy the property for public use, as decreed in said order, as fully as if
the same had been conveyed to it by the owners and other parties in interest,
and made parties to such proceedings. A certified copy of the order as entered
maybe recorded in the recorder's office of the county, in like manner and with
like effect, as if it were a deed of conveyance to the corporation from the
parties’ defendant to such proceedings. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 6. If at any time thereafter it should be necessary for the full
enjoyment of said property, by said corporation, to condemn the interest of any
person, whether a party to such former proceeding, or not, in such property not
taken in the former proceeding, proceedings may be had for that purpose, in the
same manner and with like effect as hereinafter provided. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 7. In all proceedings after the date of the passage of this act, for
the purpose of laying out, opening any new street, or for the purpose of
extending and prolonging the line of, or widening or straightening of any
street already established, the damages and compensation to be awarded or paid
to the owners of property, or other parties in interest, for and on account of
the taking of said property for the purpose aforesaid, shall be paid by, and
all such improvements shall be made at the expense of the property holders
along and fronting on and adjacent to the property holders, or on the street to
be extended, prolonged, widened or straightened, as follows: It shall be the
duty of the common council, by resolution, in writing, to designate certain
limits on the route of the street laid out, extended, straightened or widened,
which limits shall include that part of the said street which the common
council shall determine to be the immediate vicinity of improvements, and which
resolution shall also state the line, and how far the assessment shall extend.
They shall fix and assess the rate per foot frontage which the owners of land
on each side of that portion of the street included in said limits shall pay
for the benefit accruing to said lands, by reason of said improvements, and if
the sum total of the assessments as made shall not be sufficient to pay the sum
total of damages and compensation awarded, and the expense of making said
improvement, then the common council shall assess the amount of the deficiency
upon other property abutting on a said street, as follows: They shall divide
the remainder of a said street, or so much thereof as may be necessary, on both
sides of said limits of immediate vicinity of improvements into sections of
five hundred feet each, and the land fronting on said sections shall be
assessed so far as shall be necessary to cover said deficiency in the following
ratio: The two sections immediately adjoining the said limits of immediate
vicinity of improvements on either end thereof shall be assessed at the same
ratio per foot frontage as shall have been fixed for that portion of the street
included in said limits of immediate vicinity. The two sections second in a
point of distance on either side of said limits of immediate vicinity shall be
assessed at the rate per foot frontage twenty-five (25) per cent less than the
rate fixed for the immediate vicinity of improvements. The two sections third
in a point of distance on either side from said designated limits shall be
assessed at a rate per foot frontage of fifty (50) per cent less than that
fixed for the said immediate vicinity. The two sections fourth in a point of
distance on either side from said designated limits shall be assessed at a rate
per foot frontage seventy-five (75) per cent, less than the rate fixed for the
immediate vicinity; and in case there should be any further sections included
in said limits to be assessed then the common council shall assess such further
sections at the rate per foot frontage not more than seventy-five (75) per cent
less than the rate fixed for the immediate vicinity, and in such less sums as
it may deem proper. The common council shall have full discretion in fixing the
rate of assessment per foot frontage on the land contained within the said
limits or immediate vicinity; provided, that the sum total of the assessment
laid thereon, and also on the said first, second, third and fourth and further
sections if necessary, or on so many as shall be sufficient to pay the total
amount of the damages and compensation awarded, and the expense of making said
improvements. Arid, provided further, that whenever the deficiency existing is
less than the sum which would be realized by assessing the said respective
sections at the rate hereinbefore provided, then the common council shall
assess the said deficiency equally and proportionately on each and every foot
frontage contained in the section liable to be first assessed for said
deficiency. In case any street crosses the line of or forms a junction with any
street so laid out extended or improved at a point within the limits of section
hereinbefore described, the land on the corners formed by said intersection or
junction shall be assessed, in addition to the assessment hereinbefore provided
for, and at the same rate for as many feet frontage as shall be contained
between the said respective corners and the center line of the street crossing
in forming a junction with the street so laid out, extended or improved.
Wherever the limits of any of the sections of five hundred feet, hereinbefore
directed to be designated and defined, shall fall within the boundaries of any
such cross street or street forming a junction with the street laid out,
extended or improved, then it shall be the duty of the common council to so
increase or diminish the length of said section that its said limit shall fall
on or be fixed by the center line of a said cross or joining street. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 8. Whenever any lands or other property are purchased by said city,
without the institution of proceedings for the condemnation thereof, for any of
the purposes enumerated in section ___ of this article, the common council
shall, as soon as the amount of the purchase money for such property has been
ascertained, apportion the amount of such damages amongst the owners of
property liable to be assessed therefore as herein provided. Such assessment
shall be recorded and collected in the same manner as provided in section 4 of
this article. The common council shall have power and is hereby authorized by
resolution in writing to make such provisions, rules, regulations as to them
may seem best for the levying and collecting of such assessments, and to
conform such mode, manner and means more closely and more fully to the
provisions of article VIII of this act. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 9. Whenever in any proceedings for the laying out, extension or
improvement of any street, commenced after the passage of his act, damages and
compensation shall have been awarded to the owners of property taken for the
purpose of said improvement and the order of confirmation of the said court has
been duly made and entered therein, as provided in section 3 of this article;
if, then, after the said common council shall assess property belonging to the
same owner to pay said damages and compensation and the expenses of said
improvements, any owner of property which has been so assessed, and to whom
damages and compensation have been so awarded, may procure from the county
recorder a certificate of such award; and the said county recorder is hereby
authorized and directed, upon application, to issue such certificate, the
person so obtaining such certificate shall receipt to the county recorder for
the same. All such certificates shall be received by the tax collector of the
city, or other officer, whose duty it is to receive and collect such
assessment, in payment or part payment, as the case may be, of the assessments
levied for the same improvements upon land belonging to the person in whose
favor any such certificate has been issued. Upon such presentation and delivery
of such certificate the tax collector shall receipt to the holder thereof on
account of said assessment and shall enter the amount so receipted for by him
to the credit of the presenter thereof in the proper book. Should the amount of
any such certificate of award be greater than the amount of assessment lay on
property belonging to the presenter thereof, then the same in excess shall be
paid to said holder and presenter in the same manner as if the whole amount of
said award was due he and if the amount of any such certificate should be less
than the amount of such assessments, then the deficiency in the amount of such
as assessments shall be paid by and collected from the owner of the property so
assessed in the same manner as if the whole amount of such assessment was
unpaid and uncollected. In each and every case the tax collector, on receipt of
such certificate of award, shall endorse upon the same respectively the amount
of credit allowed by him to the presenter thereof and the balance due the city
or the said presenter, as the case may be. The tax collector shall keep and
file all such certificates received by him and enter the same fully in a book
to be kept by him for that purpose. Such certificates of award shall not be
assignable or transferable, and shall be void and of no effect in the hands of
any other person than the person to whom issued, or if used or attempted to be
used for any other purpose than the payment of assessments as hereinafter
provided. Provided, that if the person to whom such certificate is originally
issued shall sell the land so assessed, as above set forth, before the
presentation of the said certificate to the tax collector, then the said
certificate may be assigned to the purchaser of the said land, and be presented
by him to the tax collector with same force and effect as if presented by the
original holder thereof before the sale of said land. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 10. The provisions of this article are only intended to apply to the
condemnation of property for the opening, widening, extending or prolongation
of streets within a said city. (2-21-1881)
ARTICLE VII
OF STREETS, THEIR GRADES AND IMPROVEMENTS
   SECTION 1. The common council shall have power and is authorized whenever it
deems it expedient, by ordinance or resolution, in writing, to establish or
alter the grades and to improve any street or part thereof, now or hereafter
laid out or established within the corporation limits of the city and make such
improvements in such manner as it may think best, subject to the conditions and
restrictions contained in section I of article IV of this act. The power and
authority to improve a street includes the power and authority to improve the
sidewalks and pavement or board walks, and to determine and provide for
everything convenient and necessary concerning such improvements. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. No grade or improvements mentioned in section I can be undertaken
or made within ten days, and notice thereof being first given by publication in
some daily newspaper published in the city and by posting as may be prescribed
by order or resolution of the common council. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. Such notice must be given by the clerk of the common council by
order of the common council, and must specify, at least in general terms, the
street or part thereof proposed to be improved or of which the grade thereof is
proposed to be established or altered, and the kind of improvement which is
proposed to be made. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. Within ten days from the publication of such notice, the owner of
property fronting on such street or part thereof, as the case may be, amounting
to two-thirds (2/3) of the frontage on such street or part thereof, may make
and file with the clerk of the common council a written remonstrance against
the proposed improvements, grade or alteration thereof, and thereupon the same
shall not be further proceeded in or made, but no protest shall be binding upon
the common council for any longer period than three months from the
presentation thereof, and, provided, that the common council may proceed
sooner, if the property holders owning real estate amounting to at east one-
half (1/2) of the frontage of property liable to be assessed for the
improvement shall petition the common council for such improvements in writing;
provided, however, when a notice has been given to establish a grade in the
hill lands, when it is intended to cut down or fill in the street crossing, the
property owners having two-thirds (2/3) of the frontage of the four (4) blocks
adjoining said crossing to the center or middle of said blocks may make and
file with the clerk of the common council a written remonstrance against the
proposed cutting down or filling in of said crossing, and thereupon the same
shall not be further proceeded with, except as otherwise provided in this act
by process of condemnation. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 5. If no remonstrance is so made and filed, the common council at
its earliest convenience thereafter, and within six months from the final
publication of such notice, may establish the proposed grade or alteration
thereof, or commence to make the proposed improvements by passage of necessary
ordinances or resolutions, as herein provided; but, provided further, that
whenever the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the property fronting on any street
shall petition the common council to establish or alter the grade, or to
improve any street, the common council shall at once proceed to establish or
alter the grade, or make such improvement. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 6. When the resolution of the common council ordering any work to be
done has been adopted, the common council shall thereafter, without unnecessary
delay, proceed to advertise for such time, and in such manner as it shall see
fit, for proposals to do said work, and for the awarding of such contracts as
it shall deem best and not inconsistent with this act. The common council shall
have the right to reject any or all bids, and may readvertise for other
proposals. It may let the work in such sections or parcels as it may deem best.
(2-21-1881)
   SECTION 7. In case the notice be for the improvement of a street or part
thereof, the common council may, as soon as practicable after awarding the
contract, through the surveyor or other officers and employees, proceed to
assess upon each lot or part thereof fronting thereon and liable therefore, its
proper proportionate share of such cost. No defect in the name of any owner
shall affect the validity of any assessment upon any lot or part thereof and if
the name of any owner be unknown, the lot or part thereof may be assessed to
unknown owners. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 8. When the cost of improvement has been ascertained and determined,
and the proportionate share thereof on each lot or part thereof has been
ascertained to the satisfaction of the common council, as provided in section
7, the common council must, by motion, declare the same and direct its clerk to
enter a statement thereof in the docket of city Liens as provided in the next
section. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 9. The docket of the city liens is a book in which must be entered,
in pursuance of this act, the following matters in relation to assessments made
in pursuance of this act. There must be entered therein:
   First. The number or letter of the lot assessed, and the number or letter of
the block in which it is situated, or any other valid description of the
property, and if a separate assessment is made upon a part of a lot, a
particular description of the part.
   Second. The name of the owner thereof, or that the owner is unknown.
   Third. The sum assessed upon such lots or part thereof, and the date of the
entry. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 10. The docket of the city liens is a public writing and imparts
notice to all the world of the matters and things therein recorded, and the
original or certified copies of any matter authorized to be entered therein, or
are entitled to the force and effect thereof, and from the date of an entry
therein of an assessment upon a lot or a part thereof of a sum as entered is to
be deemed a tax levied and a lien thereon, which lien shall have priority over
all other liens or encumbrances thereon whatever. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 11. If within fifteen days from the entry of the assessment in the
docket of the city liens the sum assessed upon any lot or part thereof is not
wholly paid to the city treasurer and a duplicate receipt thereof filed with
the clerk of the common council, the clerk shall issue warrants directed
against the city tax collector or other person authorized to collect taxes due
the city. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 12. Such warrant must require the person to whom it is directed to
forthwith levy upon the lot or part thereof upon which the assessment is
unpaid, and sell the same in the manner provided by law, and return the
proceeds of such sale, less his fees, if any be allowed by the common council
therefore, to the city treasurer, and the warrant to the said clerk with his
doings endorsed thereon, together with the receipt of the city treasurer for
the proceeds of such sale as paid to him; and if at such sale a sufficient sum
is not bid to cover the assessment and costs, the city shall become the
purchaser. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 13. Such warrants shall have the force and effect of an execution
against real property, and shall be executed in a like manner, except as in
this article otherwise specially provided. If from any cause any warrant is not
executed within the time allowed by law, the common council may order the
issuance of an alias warrant, and as many thereof as may be necessary to
enforce the collection of such assessment. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 14. The persons executing such warrants shall immediately make a
deed for the property sold to the purchaser, stating therein that the same is
made subject to redemption, as provided in this article. Within one (1) year
from the date of such sale, the owner or any person in interest may redeem the
same, or any part thereof, upon the terms and conditions provided in the next
section. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 15. Redemption of the whole property is made by the payment of the
purchase money, and in addition ten (10) percent, if paid within three months,
twenty (20) percent if paid within six months, thirty (30) percent, if paid
within nine months, forty (40) percent if paid within twelve months; and the
amount of any tax or incumbrance which the purchaser may have paid upon the
property. Redemption of a part is made by the payment of that proportion of the
purchase money which the part redeemed bears in value to the property sold for
the assessment. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 16. A redemption discharges the property from the effects of sale
for the assessment. If made by the owner or his successor in interest, the
estate in the property is thereby restored to such owner or successor in
interest, as the case may be, but if made by a lien creditor, the amount paid
for the redemption is thereafter to be deemed a part of his judgment, decree or
mortgage, as the case may be, and shall bear like interest, and may be enforced
and collected as part thereof. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 17. Whenever a purchasers, or those claiming under him, refuse to
convey to a person entitled to redeem, such person may enforce a conveyance
thereof by a suit as for a specific contract to convey real property, and such
suit may be maintained against absent parties without proof of the tender of
the money and offer to redeem, if the plaintiff brings such money into court,
and offer then to redeem. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 18. Each lot, or part thereof, fronting upon any street or part
thereof, ordered to be improved shall be liable for the proportion of the costs
for making such improvements which the frontage of such lots, or part, bears to
the total frontage of the street, or part thereof, along which such improvement
is ordered. Provided, that the common council shall allow a credit at the
contract price as awarded by the common council upon any assessment for any
improvement of a street in favor of any real estate, or for any grading done at
any time before the adoption of such assessment by the common council; and,
provided, further, that no such credit shall exceed the amount of the proposed
assessment against such real estate, for and on account of which such credit is
claimed. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 19. The cost of providing crosswalks, and of improving all
intersections of streets, and of the space included between the center lines of
the street to be improved, and the prolongation of the side lines of any street
forming a junction with such street to be improved to such center line, shall
be paid out of the general fund of the city, and shall not be included in such
assessments. The cost of the surveys, maps, and of establishing grades, shall
be paid out of the general fund. Whenever any street, or part thereof has been
graded, or otherwise improved at the expense of the owners of the real estate
fronting thereon, and the same has been accepted by the common council, and the
same shall require any repairs to be made thereon at any time, the common
council shall order such repairs to be made; any material required for such
repairs to be only of the same nature and kind as previously used, and pay the
same out of the general fund. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 20. A sale of real property, under the provisions of the act,
conveys to the purchaser, subject to redemption, as herein provided, all the
estate or interest therein of the owners, whether known or unknown. (2-22-1881)
   SECTION 21. When an assessment upon any lot, or part thereof, for any
improvement done or ordered to be done upon any street, for the payment of
which assessment such property is chargeable, becomes delinquent, any person
having a lien thereon by judgment, decree or mortgage, or otherwise, may at any
time before the sale of such lots, or part thereof, pay the same, and the
common council shall upon such payment being made, order the mayor in the name
of the corporation, to make and execute, and deliver to the party making such
payment, and to his assigns, an assignment and transfer of said claim of the
corporation thereof, and upon such transfer being made, the amount of such
delinquent assessment and all costs thereon, together with the cost of making
such assignment, shall thereafter be deemed a part of such liens, creditors
judgments, decree, mortgage, or other charge and incumbrance and shall bear
like interest, and maybe enforced and collected as part thereof. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 22. If, at any time, it is found that the sum assessed upon any lot
or part thereof for any improvement is insufficient, the common council must
ascertain the deficit and declare the same; when so declared, the clerk must
enter the sum of the deficit in the docket of the city Liens, in a column
reserved for that purpose in the original entry, with the date thereof, and
such deficit shall thereafter be a lien upon such lots or part thereof, in like
manner and with like effect as in the case of the sum originally assessed, and
shall also be payable, and may be collected in like manner and with like effect
as in the case of such sum so assessed. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 23. If, upon the completion of any improvement, it is found that the
sum assessed therefore upon any lot or part therefore is more than sufficient
to defray the costs thereof, and the fees and other expenses allowed by the
common council for collection, the common council must ascertain and declare
the surplus in like manner as in the case of a deficit; when so declared, it
must be entered as in the case of a deficit in the docket of city Liens, and
then after the person who paid such surplus, or his legal representative, is
entitled to payment of the same by warrant on the city treasury. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 24. All money paid or collected on assessments for improvements
shall be kept as a separate fund, and in no wise used for any other purpose
whatever. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 25. The proceedings authorized by this article for the establishment
or alteration of a grade or improvement of a street or a part thereof may be
taken and had without giving the notice prescribed in section 2, whenever the
owner or owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the property liable to be assessed
shall, in writing, petition the common council therefore. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 26. Whenever any lot or part thereof sold under the provisions of
this act shall bring more than the assessment thereon with interest and costs
and charges of collection, the surplus must be paid to the city treasurer, and
the person executing the warrant must take a separate receipt for such surplus
and file it with the clerk of the common council; on the return of the warrant
at any time thereafter, the owner or his legal representative is entitled to a
warrant upon the treasurer for such surplus; provided, that whenever any lot or
part thereof sold under the provisions of this act shall bring less than the
assessments thereon, the common council shall supply the deficiency out of the
general or cash fund; and, provided further, that if at a sale of any land for
assessments under this act no bid whatever can be obtained on said land, the
mayor or city attorney shall have the right to bid the said land in, in the
name of the city, and the city shall own and hold said land so bid in, in the
same manner as if it had been purchased by any private person. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 27. The deed to the purchaser must express the true consideration
thereof which is the amount paid by the purchaser, and the return of the person
executing the warrant must specify the amount for which each lot or part
thereof was sold and the name of the purchaser. (2-21-1881)
ARTICLE VIII
ELECTIONS
   SECTION 1. Elections to be held in the said city for the purpose of electing
the officers of a said city are of two kinds:
   First. General municipal elections.
   Second. Special elections. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. General municipal elections shall be held in a said city on the
first Tuesday of next January, viz., January 1882, and every two years
thereafter. The mayor, councilmen, treasurer, city assessor and other officers
elected at the last municipal elections held January 1881, and by said common
council shall continue to hold their respective offices until the first general
municipal election to be held on the first Tuesday of January 1882 (except city
attorney, who shall hold his office two years from the date of his appointment
or election by said common council), or until their successor is appointed or
elected and qualified subject to the restrictions and conditions as herein
above stated. There shall be elected at the first general municipal election
the mayor and councilmen, including such additional councilmen and officers as
the said common council shall be elected from and represent respectively the
several wares, one councilman from each ward. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. Special elections are those which may be held for the sole
purpose of electing the mayor or councilmen when there exists a vacancy in any
of such offices before the regular expiration of the term of such officers, and
the election in the opinion of the common council should not be postponed until
the next regular general municipal election. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. The said common council of said city shall, by a resolution to be
entered upon its minutes, order the holding of all elections which may at any
time be authorized by law to be held exclusively effecting the interests of a
said city. Such order shall specify the object of the time of and a place
within the limits of each ward for the holding of such election and the names
of the inspector and judges for each ward, who must be residents thereof, to
conduct the holding of such election. Such order, certified by the clerk of the
common council to be a full, true and correct copy of the original resolutions
adopted by the common council, shall be published in some newspaper printed and
published in a said city for at least ten days prior to their appointment for
the holding of the elections. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 5. Returns of such elections shall be made to the common council,
who shall within seven days thereafter, either at a regular or special meeting,
canvas and declare the result thereof and order certificates of election to be
issued by the clerk of the common council to the person elected. The common
council shall, by ordinance or resolution in writing, provide for one precinct
in each ward in a suitable place, and also for the Judges and Inspectors,
clerks and other persons necessarily needed to carry on the elections. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 6. All elections shall in all other respects be conducted and held
in accordance with the provisions of the laws of this territory as the same may
be at the time provided for the holding of general election in this territory,
and to that end, and for that purpose, in so far as the same may be applicable
and not in conflict with the provisions of this charter, the same, with the
proper substitutions and corresponding changes is hereby made applicable. (2-
21-1881)
   SECTION 7. All officers elected at any election or appointed by the common
council to fill any vacancy shall, within five days after the date of the
issuance of the certificate of their election by the clerk, qualify, by taking
the oath of office before some officer authorized to administer oaths, and
shall file the same with the clerk of the common council. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 8. Any office shall be declared vacant upon the death or resignation
of the incumbent, and whenever any officer elected or appointed shall be absent
from the city without permission of the common council for the period of thirty
(30) consecutive days; and in case of councilmen, whenever any incumbent
thereof shall remove from the ward which he represents, the common council
shall declare such office vacant and shall proceed to fill the same by election
or appointment, as herein prescribed; provided, that a change of the boundaries
of any ward shall not be deemed to change the residence of any councilman so as
to cause a vacancy in office. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 9. The common council shall have power to receive and canvass the
returns of all elections authorized by this act, and shall be the judge,
otherwise than is herein set forth, of the qualifications, elections and
returns of its own members and other officers elected under this act. No person
shall be eligible for mayor or councilman who at the time of this election, is
not a qualified elector under the laws of this territory, and in addition to
the above qualifications, such person must be a resident of the ward from which
he is elected for at least thirty days next preceding such election. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 10. The qualifications of electors at any election held in said city
in pursuance of this act, shall be the same as those prescribed by the laws of
this territory for electors at any general territorial election, and in
addition thereto, each elector must have resided in the ward in which he offers
his vote for at least ten days next prior to such election. (2-21-1881)
ARTICLE IX
OF SALARIES OF OFFICERS AND THEIR OFFICIAL BONDS
   SECTION 1. Until the officers and members of the common council, to be
elected at the general municipal election in January 1882, shall enter upon the
duties of their respective offices, the salaries and official bonds
respectively paid to or required of any and all officers of a said city, shall
be governed, regulated and controlled in all manner and respects by the
provisions of this act, and by the ordinances, resolutions, bylaw or orders of
the common council relating to said salaries and bonds passed or made, or
hereinafter to be passed or made, in accordance with the provisions of said
act. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The salaries and compensation of the city attorney, city
surveyor, city treasurer, tax collector, assessor, chief of police, clerk of
common council and all other officers appointed by the mayor and common council
shall be fixed by said common council at such sums or amounts as they may deem
just and equitable. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. In addition to taking the oath required by section 7 of article
VIII of this act the following named officers of a said city shall respectively
execute to the said mayor and common council bonds in not less than the
following sums, respectively, conditioned for the faithful discharge by them of
the duties of their respective offices, viz: From the city attorney, $1,000;
from the city surveyor, $1,000; conditional for the faithful and correct
performance of the duties of his office; from the city treasurer in such sums
as the common council shall from time to time determine; from the auditor,
$2,000; from the chief of police, $5,000; from the tax collector, $5,000; from
the assessor, $5,000; and such other officers in such sums as the common
council deem proper. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. Each such official bond shall also be executed by sureties or
surety companies duly licensed and authorized to carry on the surety business
within the state of Arizona. The bonds of all officers shall be approved by the
city attorney, mayor and common council, as hereinbefore provided, and after
approval shall be filed with and remain in the keeping of the clerk of the
common council; provided, that the bond of the auditor shall be filed with and
remain in the keeping of the mayor of said city. (2-21-1881; amd. Ord. 153, 10-
14-1954)
   SECTION 5. Should any person appointed to any office fail to qualify and
give bonds as herein required, the common council shall, at the first or any
other meeting thereafter, by resolution to be entered upon the minutes, declare
such office vacant, which vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the mayor,
and with the consent of the common council. (2-21-1881)
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   SECTION 1. The city of Tombstone shall not be, and is not bound by any
contract, or in any way liable thereon, unless the same is made in writing by
order of the common council, the drafts thereof be approved by the common
council and the same ordered to be and be signed by the mayor, or some other
person, in behalf of the city; but the mayor and common council, by an
ordinance, resolution or motion, may authorize any officer, committee, or agent
of the city to bind the city without a contract in writing for the payment of
any sum of money not exceeding three hundred dollars; provided, that no
contract binding the city shall be valid unless it be completely executed,
fulfilled and performed within the period of one year after the date of the
execution and delivery thereof. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 2. The said corporation shall not be liable to anyone for any loss
or injury to person or property growing out of or caused by the malfeasance,
misfeasance or neglect of duty of any officer or other authorities of a said
city; or for any injury or damages happening to such person or property on
account of the condition of any sewer, cesspool, street, sidewalk or public
ground therein; but this does not exonerate any officer of said city, or any
other person, from such liability, when such casualty or accident is caused by
the willful neglect of duty upon such officer or person by law, or by the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of such officer or person in any other
respect. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 3. The indebtedness of a said city must not exceed, in the
aggregate, the sum of $50,000, and any debt or liability, incurred in violation
of this section, except as hereinafter provided, whether by borrowing money,
loaning the credit of the city, or otherwise, is null and void, and of no
effect. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 4. In any action, suit or proceeding in any court concerning an
assessment of property or levy of taxes authorized by this act, or the
collection of any such, or proceeding consequent thereon, such assessment,
consequent proceeding, and all proceedings connected therewith, shall be
presumed to be regular and duly done or taken, until the contrary is shown and
when any proceeding, matter or thing is by this act committed or left to the
discretion of the mayor and common council or other authority of a said city,
such discretion or judgment, when expressed or declared, is final, and cannot
be removed or called in question elsewhere. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 5. In making a deed for real property sold for a delinquent
assessment for any improvement, it is not necessary to set forth or recite the
proceedings prior to the sale, but it is sufficient if it substantially appears
from such, and that the property was sold by virtue of a warrant of said city,
and the date thereof, that it was sold for a delinquent assessment, and the
amount thereof, together with the date of the sale and the amount bid thereat
by the purchaser. The style of the warrant for collection of assessments shall
be in the name of the mayor and common council of the city of Tombstone. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 6. When the grade of any street has been established by the common
council, and a petition in writing, signed by property owners of two-thirds (2/
3) of the feet fronting on that portion of the street, the grade of which has
been so established, praying permission to cut down or fill up the street in
front of such property at their own expense, has been presented to the common
council, the common council shall authorize such property owners to so cut down
or fill up such portion of a said street in front of said property according to
a said grade, at the expense and cost of such owners. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 7. The authority mentioned in section 6 cannot be given after an
assessment has been made for the improvement of the street in front of such
property. In giving such authority the common council may impose such terms and
conditions as may be necessary to secure the deposit of excavations upon any
part of such street as may be required to be filled up. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 8. Real property, when sold for or to satisfy delinquent
assessments, or tax, must be sold for United States coin, and not otherwise;
and anyone applying or seeking to redeem property so sold, as in this act
provided, must pay or offer to pay the sum necessary therefor in such coin, and
not otherwise. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 9. All real property within the limits of the city not laid off in
blocks or lots at the time of making an assessment authorized by this act,
except as herein otherwise provided, must be assessed at its cash value per
acre, or fraction thereof, as the case may be. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 10. Whenever any lot or part thereof is sold for a delinquent
assessment for a street improvement, and afterwards be sold for a deficit in
such assessment as in this act provided, to any person other than the purchaser
at the first sale, or his successor in interest, such purchaser or successor,
for the purpose of making redemption from the purchaser at such sale, is to be
deemed an owner within the meaning of this act. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 11. Every ordinance and resolution which shall have been passed by
the common council shall, before it becomes effective, be signed by the city
attorney and the clerk of the common council, and be presented to the mayor for
his approval and signature, if he approves it; if not, he shall endorse thereon
the date of the presentation to him and shall return it to the clerk of the
common council, with his objection in writing. The clerk of the common council
shall endorse thereon the date of its return to him, and shall, at the first
meeting of the common council thereafter present the same, with the objection
of the mayor, to that body; thereupon the common council shall proceed to
reconsider the passage of the ordinance; if, after such reconsideration, four-
fifths (4/5) of the members at that time actually constituting the common
council, including absentees, agree to pass it, the same shall become an
ordinance. In all such cases the vote shall be by ayes and nays, and the names
of the members voting for or against shall be entered upon the journal. (2-21-
1881)
   SECTION 12. If any ordinance or resolution shall not be returned to the
clerk of the common council by the mayor, with his objection in writing, within
fifteen (15) days (Sundays and legal holidays excepted), after it shall have
been presented to him, it shall become effective and be as valid as if the
mayor had approved and signed it. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 13. The style of every ordinance shall substantially be "the mayor
and common council of the city of Tombstone do ordain as follows." (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 14. The style of every resolution, in writing, of the common
council, shall substantially be as follows: "Be it resolved by the mayor and
common council of the city of Tombstone." (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 15. The mayor of the said city shall, and the clerk of the common
council shall respectively be authorized to administer oaths in the same manner
and with like effect as other officers authorized by law of the territory to
administer oaths. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 16. If the bonds of any officer should at any time, become
insufficient, the common council may require him to give additional security;
and in case of his failure to do so within fifteen (15) days may declare his
office vacant, and it shall be the duty of the mayor at once to take into his
charge all books and papers, money and other public property at the time in the
hands of or under the control of such officer so removed, and retain the same
until the election or appointment and qualification of a successor. For the
better enforcement of this section the mayor is authorized, at the cost of the
city, to commence and prosecute in his own name all appropriate remedies
therefore. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 17. All claims and demands against the said corporation shall, in
accordance with such rules and regulations as the common council may prescribe,
be presented to the council, and shall be by them referred to a committee on
finance, or a special committee, or other appropriate committee, as may be
determined by the common council, who shall examine, audit, or allow or reject
the same in whole or in part, subject to the approval of the common council.
Such committees shall report to the common council as soon as practicable; the
common council shall thereupon proceed to consider the report of the committee,
and the claims or demands presented, and shall, if the same be just and legal,
order the same to be paid, and shall require the auditor to draw a warrant upon
the city treasury in favor of the holder of such claim, or demand for the
amount allowed; such warrant shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by
the auditor. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 18. No suit shall be brought upon any claim for money or damages
against a said corporation until such claim or demand has been presented as
aforesaid and rejected by the common council, whole or in part; if rejected in
part, suit may be brought to recover the whole. Nor shall suit be brought
against a said corporation upon any such claim or demand if the common council
shall allow the whole of such claim or demand, and shall order the same to be
paid as hereinbefore required, provided, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed as to deprive the holder of any claim or demand of his right to
resort to a suit of mandate, or other proceeding against the said common
council, or any officer of a said city, to compel them or him to act upon said
claim or demand, to draw or sign such warrants or pay the same when so drawn. A
majority of the members of the common council shall be necessary to pass any
ordinance or resolution or to do or perform any other act whereby any debt is
created and money is appropriated or the revenue of the city is in any way
diminished. Upon the passage of any such ordinance or resolution or motion, the
ayes and nays shall be called, and the names of the persons voting for or
against such ordinance, resolution or motion shall be entered upon the journal
of the proceedings of the common council. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 19. In all prosecutions for violation of any city ordinance, rule or
other regulations of said authorities, whether in the court of original
jurisdiction or in any appellate court, it shall be unnecessary to plead the
contents of the same, but the court before which the prosecution shall be
pending shall take judicial notice of such ordinance, resolution, rule or other
regulation, and of the contents thereof, and in any civil action or proceeding
to which said corporation is a party, either as plaintiff or defendant, the
adoption and contents of any ordinance, resolution, bylaw, rule or regulation
may be prima facie proven by the introduction of the original entry thereof or
the journal of the proceedings of the common council. A copy of such entry,
certified by the clerk of the common council to be a full, true and correct
copy of such original entry, or by the introduction of a printed copy thereof.
(2-21-1881)
   SECTION 20. The official books and papers of all officers of a said
corporation are city property and must be kept as such by said officers during
their continuance in office, and then delivered to their successors
respectively or to the common council. Such books and papers may at any time be
inspected by the mayor or by a committee of the common council appointed for
that purpose or as herein provided. If the city furnishes a public building,
the offices of the city treasurer, assessor, chief of police, tax collector and
such other offices as may be prescribed by ordinance, rule or otherwise must be
kept therein. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 21. Unless otherwise provided in this act, the mayor and common
council or either, when authorized by this act to adopt any ordinance, or
resolution or make any rule or regulation, such municipal authority so
empowered shall have the further power and is hereby authorized to provide that
each and every violation of such ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation
shall be and constitute a misdemeanor, and may prescribe as punishment
therefore, to be imposed upon any person found guilty thereof a fine not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or a term of imprisonment not
exceeding six months or both fine and imprisonment. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 22. In addition to what may be especially required by other
provisions of this act to be published, the following proceedings and acts of
certain municipal authorities shall be published in English by at least three
insertions in some newspaper printed and published in such city:
   First. All ordinances adopted in accordance with the provisions of this act.
   Second. All resolutions of the common council required by this act to be in
writing. (3-25-1935)
   SECTION 23. The mayor, common council and chief of police shall be and
constitute a board of police commissioners. The board shall have power to
appoint as many regular and special policemen as may be necessary, to regulate
the same and to dismiss from the police force at any time any member thereof.
For the proper regulation of such police force the board shall have the power
to make such rules and regulations as may be proper. Only a majority of such
board shall be necessary to determine any question. The compensation of all
policemen shall be prescribed by the common council. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 24. It shall be the duty of the mayor, city attorney, city
treasurer, city assessor, chief of police, city tax collector, auditor and
health officer and city surveyor to present to the common council, at its
second meeting in January of each year, a report which shall show as follows:
   First. The mayor shall, in addition to his report as mayor, inform the
common council of the condition of the recorder's court, the number of arrests
made, the offenses charged and how disposed of, the penalties inflicted and
amount of fines and from whom collected.
   Second. The city attorney shall in his report present an abstract of all
actions and proceedings in the supreme, district, county recorder's and other
courts where the city is an interested party, and shall show what cases have
been disposed of during the year, and in what manner and condition of those
remaining on the calendar.
   Third. The city treasurer shall show in his report specifically the amount
of all indebtedness of the city of money received by him during the year; the
date of the receipt thereof and from whom; the amount paid out; when and to
whom, and the date and number of the warrants on which the respective amounts
are paid.
   Fourth. The city tax collector shall report the amount of money received,
and on what account; and he shall present a detailed statement of all money
received from licenses, with dates, amounts, and from whom received; and also
the amount of licenses remaining uncollected, with the names of the
delinquents.
   Fifth. The city assessor shall, in his report, show the amount of personal
taxes collected by him, together with the amount of any fees and compensation
which he may have received on account of such collections in each case, and
show the condition of the office during the year.
   Sixth. The city auditor shall make a proper statement of the transactions of
his office.
   Seventh. The chief of police shall report the number of arrests made by him;
the offenses charged, and how disposed of; the number and names of policemen
employed; when appointed, and when discharged.
   Eighth. The health officer shall show the condition of the health of the
city during the year, and the number of cases of disease which he has treated
during the year.
   Ninth. The recorder shall make a proper report of the transactions of his
office.
   Tenth. The city surveyor shall make a proper report of the transactions of
his office.
The several reports to be referred to a special committee of the common
council, who shall be appointed by the mayor and be members of the council, who
shall examine the same, and if found correct, shall so report; after said
report shall have been made, it shall be the duty of the common council, if
they deem it proper, to order the same to be printed and bound; copies thereof
to be deposited in the archives, and such number as the common council may
direct be retained for general distribution. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 25. The mayor and common council shall have the right, and are
hereby authorized to establish, if they deem it proper, by ordinance or
resolution, separate funds from which money shall be drawn applicable thereto,
not inconsistent with or contrary to this act. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 26. All acts of the legislature, certificates of incorporation
relating to the city of Tombstone, and all city ordinances, resolutions and
other regulations now in force and not inconsistent herewith, shall be and
remain in full force after this act takes effect, until changed or repealed by
the proper authority. All actions and proceedings commenced in any court
wherein the city of Tombstone is a party shall be continued under the law
existing when said action or proceeding was commenced. (2-21-1881)
   SECTION 27. This act shall take effect and be in force immediately after its
passage. (2-21-1881)
Approved February 21, 1881.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Construction Of Words
1-1-5: Definitions
1-1-6: Interpretations
1-1-7: Enactment Of Ordinances
1-1-1: TITLE:
This compilation and codification of the general ordinances of the city of
Tombstone is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
city code of the city of Tombstone. Any reference made to the number of any
section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same under its appropriate title heading, its chapter heading, and its section
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any legal
document. (1972 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of a general and permanent effect of the city. (1972
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers or their successors, and the said ordinance material shall be
prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
copy of this code within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage.
(1972 Code)
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties, or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. Provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto. (1972 Code)
1-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: Shall mean the city of Tombstone, in the county of Cochise, in the state
of Arizona, except as otherwise provided.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this city code.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Tombstone".
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
MUNICIPALITY: Tombstone, Arizona
NEGLIGENT: As well as "neglect", "negligence", and "negligently" imports a want
of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission
as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
OFFICER: Shall include elected officers and such other appointees as set forth
in this code.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, and joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Shall be deemed to include any "person, firm, association, or
corporation" or any organization of any kind.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREETS: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of presenting
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark.
Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a license or
permit or authority from a board or officer, shall be construed as giving such
board or officer power to license or permit or authorize such thing to be done.
(1972 Code; amd. Ord. 07-1986, 10-20-1986)
1-1-6: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever intent to defraud is required in order to
constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if intent appears to defraud any
person.
   B.   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provision of any section of
this official code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be deemed guilty of the offense described and liable to the
penalty set forth. (1972 Code)
1-1-7: ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   Introduction: Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects
requiring action by the mayor and common council shall by introduced and
sponsored by a member of the common council, except that the city attorney or
the city clerk may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or
subjects to the mayor and common council, and any common council member may
assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinance, resolution, matter or
subject be adopted.
   B.   Prior Approval: All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents
shall, before presentation to the mayor and common council, have been reviewed
as to form by the city attorney, and shall, when there are substantive matters
of administration involved, be referred to the person who is charged with the
administration of the matters. Such person shall have an opportunity to present
objections, if any, prior to passage of the ordinance, resolution or acceptance
of the contract.
   C.   Same Day Passage Prohibited: All ordinances except emergency ordinances
shall have two (2) separate readings, but the first and the second reading
shall never be made on the same day. The first reading may be by title only,
but the second reading shall be in full, unless the mayor and common council,
in possession of printed copies of said ordinance, shall unanimously allow
reading by title only.
   D.   Requirement For An Ordinance: Each ordinance should have but one
subject, the nature of which is clearly expressed in the title. Whenever
possible, each ordinance shall be introduced as an amendment to this code or to
an existing ordinance, and in such case, the title of the sections to be
amended shall be included in the ordinance.
   E.   Effective Date Of Ordinances: No ordinance, resolution or franchise
shall become operative until thirty (30) days after its passage by the mayor
and common council and approval by the mayor, except measures necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health or safety of the city, but such an
emergency measure shall not become immediately operative unless it states in a
separate section the reason why it is necessary that it should become
immediately operative, and unless it is approved by the affirmative vote of
three-fourths (3/4) of all the members elected to the common council.
   F.   Signatures Required: Every ordinance passed by the mayor and common
council shall, before it becomes effective, be signed by the mayor and attested
by the city clerk.
   G.   Published Required: Only such orders, resolution, motions, regulations
or proceedings of the mayor and common council shall be published as may be
required by state statutes or expressly ordered by the mayor and common
council.
   H.   Posting Required: Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine,
forfeiture or other punishment, shall, after passage, be posted by the city
clerk in three (3) or more public places within the city of Tombstone and an
affidavit of the person who posted the ordinances shall be filed in the office
of the clerk as proof of posting. (Ord. 2004-7, 11-30-2004)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Pending Suits
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances, ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1972 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provision for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1972 Code)
1-2-3: PENDING SUITS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, and
applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1972
Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-3-1: Penalty
1-3-2: Default
1-3-3: Driving While Intoxicated
1-3-4: Prisoner Labor; Authorization
1-3-5: Prisoners To Be Guarded
1-3-6: Additional Punishment
1-3-7: Disturbing, Corresponding With Prisoner Forbidden
1-3-8: License
1-3-9: Application
1-3-10: (Rep. by Ord. 78-79-01, 10-16-1978)
1-3-11: Liability Of Officers
1-3-12: Magistrate Court Fees
1-3-13: Waiver Or Deferral Of Fees
1-3-1: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code shall be fined
in a sum not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one (1) offense
and such person may be confined in the Municipal or County Jail for a period of
not more than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be
imposed. (1972 Code)
1-3-2: DEFAULT:
In all cases where a fine is imposed as a penalty for the violation of any
section of this Code, imprisonment may be ordered in lieu of the nonpayment of
such fine, not to exceed one (1) day for each one dollar ($1.00) of the fine
imposed.
Any person who shall be committed to the custody of the City Marshal because of
nonpayment of a fine imposed may be released at any time prior to the
termination of the period for which committed by paying the amount of the fine
imposed, less one dollar ($1.00) for each day of actual confinement. (1972
Code)
1-3-3: DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED:
Any person convicted of driving a motor vehicle while intoxicated or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs shall be fined in the amount
of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and may also be confined in the Municipal or
County Jail for not more than six (6) months. On a second or subsequent
conviction such person shall be punished by imprisonment in the County Jail for
not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one (1) year, and in the
discretion of the court, by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Upon conviction, said person shall also surrender his driver's
license to the court. (1972 Code)
1-3-4: PRISONER LABOR; AUTHORIZATION:
Whenever in the opinion of the Mayor the prisoners of the City Jail may be
employed at labor on the streets in a manner profitable to the City, he shall
be authorized to require the City Marshal to furnish as many prisoners to labor
on the streets as in the judgment of said Mayor may be so employed. (1972 Code)
1-3-5: PRISONERS TO BE GUARDED:
The City Marshal upon receiving such requisition shall specially depute a
member (or man if he deems it expedient) of the police force to take charge of
said prisoners to take them from and to the City Jail and to guard the same and
to require said prisoners to perform such labor upon the streets as the Mayor
may designate and not permit them to escape from his custody. (1972 Code)
1-3-6: ADDITIONAL PUNISHMENT:
The City Marshal or person in charge of the City Jail is hereby empowered and
required to put any refractory prisoner or prisoners who refuse to labor or
does not labor on the said street when so required or otherwise violates the
discipline of the said City Jail and to inflict on him or them such other and
additional punishment by solitary confinement as may be deemed necessary and
proper during the time such prisoner or prisoners are refractory. (1972 Code)
1-3-7: DISTURBING, CORRESPONDING WITH PRISONER FORBIDDEN:
No person shall and every person (except the offices or officers in charge) is
hereby forbidden to speak to or in any way correspond with or disturb any
prisoner working upon the streets or elsewhere in said City. (Ord. 5, 4-7-1881)
1-3-8: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, any
license previously issued to him by the Municipality may be revoked by the
court or by the Municipal Governing Body. (1972 Code)
1-3-9: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature is forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which violation occurs or continues.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of the general
penalty clause shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
(1972 Code)
1-3-10: (Rep. by Ord. 78-79-01, 10-16-1978)
1-3-11: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1972
Code)
1-3-12: MAGISTRATE COURT FEES:
   A.   Court Improvement Fee: The court shall impose a court improvement fee
in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) per violation as determined by a
conviction or plea agreement, which shall be applied by the court in addition
to all fines, sanctions, penalties and assessments imposed by the court. The
court improvement fee shall be collected by the court for deposit in a court
account maintained by the City and shall be used exclusively to enhance the
court's infrastructure as well as its technological, operational and security
capabilities. The City shall invest the monies in the same manner as other City
funds. Interest earned on the monies shall be deposited in the fund.
   B.   Security Fee: In addition to any other fee, the Magistrate Court may
impose a security fee in the amount of thirty dollars ($30.00) for the presence
of security in any court proceeding.
   C.   Jail Cost Fee: The court may, pursuant to State law or an
intergovernmental or interagency agreement, as a part of a sentence imposed by
the court order a person sentenced to serve time in any Municipal or County
Jail to reimburse the City for all or part of the actual cost of his/her
incarceration incurred by the City as a result of that incarceration at the
daily rates established by the City or charged to the City by the County Jail.
   D.   Returned Check Fee: The court shall order the payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) by any person paying the court with a check that
is dishonored by a financial institution. This fee will be in addition to any
fees imposed on the court by the bank or financial institution for processing
the dishonored check or financial instrument.
   E.   Credit Card Fee: The Magistrate Court shall collect an additional
amount equal to 1.5 percent of the credit card transaction to cover merchant
fees and credit card transaction fees. (Ord. 2019-02, 6-11-2019)
1-3-13: WAIVER OR DEFERRAL OF FEES:
Notwithstanding section
1-3-12 of this chapter, the City Magistrate may waive or defer for a period up
to twelve (12) months part or all of any fee imposed by this chapter if the
court finds the defendant is indigent, it would cause a hardship on the
defendant or his/her family, or if the City Magistrate is of the opinion such
waiver would be in the interests of justice. (Ord. 2019-02, 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 4
WARDS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Wards Designated
1-4-2: First Ward
1-4-3: Second Ward
1-4-4: Third Ward
1-4-5: Fourth Ward
1-4-1: WARDS DESIGNATED:
For the purposes of election and representation, the city is hereby divided
into four (4) wards, numbered respectively, first ward, second ward, third
ward, and fourth ward. (Ord. 05-1985, 12-16-1985)
1-4-2: FIRST WARD:
The first ward shall consist of all that portion of the city lying between the
north and south boundaries of the city, the center of Sumner Street and the
west line of the city. (Ord. 05-1985, 12-16-1985)
1-4-3: SECOND WARD:
The second ward shall consist of all that portion of the city lying between the
north and south boundaries of the city, the centerline of Sumner Street and the
corner line of Fourth Street. (Ord. 05-1985, 12-16-1985)
1-4-4: THIRD WARD:
The third ward shall consist of all that portion of the city lying between the
north and south boundaries of the city, the centerline of Fourth Street and the
centerline of Ninth Street north of Safford Street, and Tenth Street south of
Safford Street. (Ord. 05-1985, 12-16-1985)
1-4-5: FOURTH WARD:
The fourth ward shall consist of all that portion of the city lying between the
north and south boundaries of the city, the centerline of Ninth Street north of
Safford Street, and Tenth Street south of Safford Street and the east line of
the city. (Ord. 05-1985, 12-16-1985)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Term
1-5-2: Duties
1-5-3: Contract
1-5-4: Accounts Of Officers
1-5-5: May Require Aid
1-5-6: Other Powers
1-5-7: Qualifications
1-5-8: Mayor Pro Tem
1-5-9: Salary
1-5-1: TERM:
The mayor shall be elected for a two (2) year term, and shall serve until his
successor is appointed and qualified as provided by law. (1972 Code)
1-5-2: DUTIES:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and he shall preside
over the meetings of the city council. He shall call special meetings of the
city council when necessary. He shall, from time to time, provide for the city
council such information and recommend such measures as he may deem beneficial
to the city. He shall examine the grounds of all complaints against any officer
of the city to determine existence of a violation or neglect of duty and report
to the city council the evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for the removal
of said officer. He shall require that every officer, on the expiration of his
term of office or resignation or removal deliver to his successor all assets
belonging to such office. He shall countersign all checks prepared and signed
by the city clerk. He shall perform all other duties required and necessary for
the efficient operation of the business of the city. (1972 Code)
1-5-3: CONTRACT:
The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name officially for and in
behalf of the city on all contracts, documents and papers to which the city is
a party, and to require that the conditions in any instrument are faithfully
performed. He may borrow money on the credit of the city when so authorized by
the city council. (1972 Code)
1-5-4: ACCOUNTS OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall have the powers to require any officer of the city to exhibit
his accounts or other papers and to make reports to the city council in writing
on any subject or matter pertaining to the office. (1972 Code)
1-5-5: MAY REQUIRE AID:
The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant of the city
over the age of eighteen (18) years to aid in enforcing the law. (1972 Code)
1-5-6: OTHER POWERS:
The mayor shall have the power to approve or veto any order, bylaw, award or
vote to enter into contract, or the allowance of any claim. Provided that any
order, bylaw, award or vote to enter into any contract, or allowance of any
claim vetoed by the mayor, may be passed over his veto by a vote of four-fifths
(4/5) of all members elected to the common council. If the mayor neglects or
refuses to sign any order, bylaw, award or vote to enter into contract, or
allowance of any claim and returns the same with his objection in writing to
the clerk of the common council; at the next regular meeting shall become
effective and be as valid as if the mayor had approved and/or signed it. The
mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill and approve the
remainder thereof and the item or items vetoed may be passed by the common
council over the veto as in other cases. The mayor shall have other powers
provided by state statute or by provisions of this code. (Ord. 2013-09, 3-21-
2013)
1-5-7: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be a mayor unless, at the time of his election, he is twenty
one (21) years old, a qualified elector and freeholder residing within the city
at the time of his election, and has resided therein for one year next
proceeding. (1972 Code)
1-5-8: MAYOR PRO TEM:
The council shall, from its number, designate by resolution in the absence of
the mayor, a mayor pro tem to act as provided by article V, section 2 of the
charter. (1972 Code)
1-5-9: SALARY:
The compensation or salary of the Mayor for the performance of official duties
shall be established annually in conjunction with the preparation of the Fiscal
Year Budget as approved by resolution.
(Ord. 2024-05, 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 6
COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Members
1-6-2: Qualifications
1-6-3: Quorum
1-6-4: Duties
1-6-5: Powers
1-6-6: Budget And Financial Statement
1-6-7: Liability Of Council
1-6-8: Salary
1-6-9: Rules Of Decorum For Meeting
1-6-10: Meeting Dates And Times
1-6-1: MEMBERS:
The common council shall consist of the mayor and four (4) councilmen; the
mayor to be elected from the city at large, and one councilman from each ward
of the city. (Ord. 185, 6-13-1960)
1-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be a councilman unless, at the time of his election he is
twenty one (21) years old, a qualified elector and freeholder residing within
the city at the time of his election and has resided therein for one year next
proceeding. (1972 Code)
1-6-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the councilmen shall constitute a quorum for transacting business
but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members in such manner and under such penalty as the common council may
prescribe. No such adjournment shall be to a day beyond the next slated meeting
of the council. (1972 Code)
1-6-4: DUTIES:
The common council shall judge the elections, qualifications and returns of its
members. It shall prescribe rules for the government of its proceedings, may
punish any member or other person for disorderly conduct at any meeting of the
council by a fine, and by imprisonment until the payment of the fine, and with
the concurrence of four (4) councilmen may expel any member, but not a second
time for the same cause.
The council shall cause the clerk to keep a journal of its proceedings and a
record of all ordinances adopted, and at the request of any member shall cause
the ayes and nays upon any question to be taken and entered upon its journals.
The proceedings of the council shall be public. (1972 Code)
1-6-5: POWERS:
The council shall have all of the powers enumerated by charter or by state
statute. (1972 Code)
1-6-6: BUDGET AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
The council shall annually, in compliance with Arizona Revised Statutes,
publish a full and correct statement of all monies received into the treasury
of the city since the last report and the sources from which they were
severally derived, and also of all disbursements and expenditures and the
account upon which the disbursement was made.
The council shall annually, in compliance with Arizona Revised Statutes, and in
particular Arizona Revised Statutes 42-302 as amended, prepare a budget which
shall be fully itemized by department and/or program, except that the council
may designate, either within each department of the program or as part of the
budget as a whole, a contingency fund.
The council shall authorize all disbursements and expenditures either by an
annual act of appropriation upon the adoption of the budget or, if the city
council so elects, by separate acts of appropriation, and no funds may be
expended out of any department, program or contingency fund, except as
authorized by the council to carry out the function and goals of the department
or program which the funds were appropriated. Use of monies within any
contingency fund may only be made by express approval and authorization of the
council. (Ord. 2-1989, 4-17-1989)
1-6-7: LIABILITY OF COUNCIL:
A member of the council shall not be personally liable in damages or otherwise
for an unlawful act of an officer or employee of the city unless the act is
committed by the authority of the member, or he has notice or knowledge
thereof, or unless the act is committed under circumstances which would cause
or would have caused a reasonable or prudent person to have knowledge of the
act. (1972 Code)
1-6-8: SALARY:
The compensation or salary of the four (4) Councilmen of the City for the
performance of official duties shall be established annually in conjunction
with the preparation of the Fiscal Year Budget as approved by resolution.
(Ord. 2024- 05, 10-8-2024)
1-6-9: RULES OF DECORUM FOR MEETING:
   A.   Decorum: Meetings of the city council shall be conducted in an orderly
manner to ensure that the public has a full opportunity to be heard and that
the deliberative process of the council is retained at all times. The presiding
member of the council, who shall be the mayor, mayor pro tempore or, in their
absence, other member so designated by the council, shall be responsible for
maintaining the order and decorum of meetings.
   B.   Rules Of Decorum: While any meeting of the city council is in session,
the following rules of order and decorum shall be observed:
      1.   Council Members: The members of the city council shall preserve
order and decorum, and a member shall not by conversation or other means delay
or interrupt the council proceedings or disturb any other member while
speaking.
      2.   City Staff Members: Employees of the city shall observe the same
rules of order and decorum as those which apply to the members of council.
      3.   Persons Addressing The Council: Public oral communications at the
city council meetings should not be a substitute for any item that can be
handled during the normal working hours of the municipal government. The
primary purpose of oral communications is to allow citizens the opportunity to
formally communicate with the city council as a whole, for matters that cannot
be handled during the regular working hours of the city government. Each person
who addresses the council shall do so in an orderly manner and shall not make
personal, impertinent, slanderous or profane remarks to any member of the
council, staff or general public. Any person who makes such remarks, or who
utters loud, threatening, personal or abusive language, or engages in any other
disorderly conduct which disrupts, disturbs or otherwise impedes the orderly
conduct of any council meeting shall, at the discretion of the presiding member
or a majority of the council, be barred from further audience before the
council during that meeting.
      4.   Members Of The Audience: No person in the audience at a council
meeting shall engage in disorderly or boisterous conduct, including the
utterance of loud, threatening or abusive language, whistling, stamping of feet
or other acts which disturb, disrupt or otherwise impede the orderly conduct of
any council meeting. Any person who conducts himself in the aforementioned
manner shall, at the discretion of the presiding member or a majority of the
council, be barred from further audience before the council during that
meeting.
   C.   Addressing The Council: At the discretion of the council, a person
wishing to address the council regarding an item which is on the council
meeting agenda shall submit a request on the form provided, or he or she may
seek recognition by the presiding member of the council during discussion of
any such item. Persons wishing to discuss a nonagenda item may seek recognition
by the presiding member during the oral communications portion of the meeting.
No person shall address the council without first being recognized by the
presiding member. The following procedures shall be observed by persons
addressing the council:
      1.   Each person shall step to the podium provided for the use of the
public and shall state his or her name and address; the organization, if any,
which he or she represents; and, if during the oral communications portion of
the meeting, the subject he or she wishes to discuss.
      2.   During the oral communications portion, any subject which is not
deemed relevant by the council shall be concluded.
      3.   Each person shall confine his or her remarks to the council agenda
item or approved oral communications subject being discussed.
      4.   Each person shall limit his or her remarks to three (3) minutes,
unless further time is granted by the council.
      5.   All remarks shall be addressed to the council as a whole and not to
any single member thereof, unless in response to a question from such member.
      6.   No question may be asked of a member of the council or of the city
staff without permission of the presiding member.
      7.   At the conclusion of an open call to the public, individual members
of the council may respond up to three (3) minutes (unless further time is
granted by the presiding member) to criticism made by those who have addressed
the council as a whole, may ask staff to review a matter or may ask that a
matter be put on a future agenda. However, individual members of the council
shall not discuss or take legal action on matters raised during an open call to
the public unless the matters are properly noticed for discussion and legal
action.
   D.   Enforcement Of Decorum: The rules of decorum set forth above shall be
enforced in the following manner:
      1.   Warning: The presiding member shall request that a person who is
breaching the rules of decorum be orderly and silent. If, after receiving a
warning from the presiding member, a person persists in disturbing the meeting,
the presiding member shall order him or her, to leave the council meeting. If
such person does not remove himself or herself, then pursuant to Arizona
Revised Statutes section 13-3804, the presiding member may order any law
enforcement officer who is on duty at the meeting as sergeant at arms of the
council to remove that person from the council chambers.
      2.   Removal: Any law enforcement officer who is serving as sergeant at
arms of the council shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the
presiding member for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the
council meeting. Upon instruction of the presiding member, it shall be the duty
of the sergeant at arms to remove from the council meeting any person who is
disturbing the proceedings of the council.
      3.   Resisting Removal: Any person who resists removal by the sergeant at
arms shall be charged with a violation of this section.
      4.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section
13-2904.
      5.   Motion To Enforce: If the presiding member of the council fails to
enforce the rules set forth above, any member of the council may move to
require him or her to do so, and an affirmative vote of a majority of the
council shall require him or her to do so. If the presiding member of the
council fails to carry out the will of a majority of the council, the majority
may designate another member of the council to act as presiding member for the
limited purpose of enforcing any rule of this section which it wishes to
enforce.
      6.   Adjournment: If a meeting of the council is disturbed or disrupted
in such a manner as to make infeasible or improbable the restoration of order,
the meeting may be adjourned or continued by the presiding member or a majority
of the council, and any remaining council business may be considered at the
next meeting. (Ord. 3-2003, 10-30-2003)
1-6-10: COUNCIL MEETING DATES AND TIMES:
The city council shall hold regular meetings on the second Tuesday of every
month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. 2006-08, 11-21-2006)
CHAPTER 7
ATTORNEY AND/OR LEGAL ADVISOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointment
1-7-2: Suits And Actions
1-7-3: Judgments
1-7-4: Advice
1-7-5: Special Assessments
1-7-6: Ordinances And Documents
1-7-1: APPOINTMENT:
The attorney and/or legal advisor shall be appointed by the mayor and council
to hold office for the duration of the term of the said appointing authority
unless sooner removed by the appointing authority. (1972 Code)
1-7-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The city attorney, or his assign(s), shall prosecute or defend on behalf of the
people, public, mayor, city council and citizens of Tombstone, and shall
prosecute or defend all court actions to which the municipality or state may be
a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or
by, any officer of the municipality on behalf of the municipality, or in the
capacity of such person as an officer of the municipality, including any and
all criminal or civil suits or actions at law or equity or violations of laws
of the state committed within the limits of the City of Tombstone or on
property in which Tombstone owns, possesses or has an easement or right-of-way,
and all suits and appeals of any kind arising from a lower court’s ruling or
ruling from an administrative agency or council action, and any other legal
action to which the city has jurisdiction concurrently with Justice Courts,
Superior Courts or Federal Courts in jurisdictions in which the city is
located. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-05, 11-12-2019)
1-7-3: JUDGMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney and/or legal advisor to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
municipality and of all similar interlocutory orders. (1972 Code)
1-7-4: ADVICE:
The attorney and/or legal advisor shall be the advisor of the municipality and
on legal matters shall render advice on all questions affecting the
municipality, whenever requested to do so by any municipal official. Upon
request by the mayor or city council, he shall reduce any such opinion to
writing. (1972 Code)
1-7-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney and/or legal advisor to see to the
completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
(1972 Code)
1-7-6: ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney and/or legal advisor to draft or supervise
the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or instruments to
which the municipality may be a party; and upon request of the council to draft
ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the municipality. (1972
Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-3: Records Of The Governing Body
1-8-4: Ordinances
1-8-5: Election Records
1-8-6: Official Seal
1-8-7: Copies Of Records
1-8-8: Licenses
1-8-9: Claims
1-8-10: Privilege Taxes
1-8-11: Other Fees
1-8-12: Ex Officio Officer
1-8-13: Deputy City Clerk
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT:
The city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent and approval of
the city council and shall hold office during the term of the appointing
authority unless sooner removed by said authority. He or she shall be ex
officio recorder, ex officio clerk of the city council and ex officio clerk of
the board of police commissioners. (Ord. 2013-05, 2-12-2013)
1-8-2: DUTIES:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office, the city clerk shall have supervision, control and responsibility of
all of the records of the municipality. The city clerk shall serve as clerk of
the governing body and perform such other duties of a like nature as shall be
required by the governing body. The city clerk shall have charge of the
finances of the city, keep proper books of accounts and prepare the annual
budget. The city clerk shall perform such other duties as may be required by
the governing body. (Ord. 3-78-79, 6-18-1979)
1-8-3: RECORDS OF THE GOVERNING BODY:
The city clerk shall be responsible for the recording, filing, indexing and
safekeeping of all proceedings of the governing body and shall have published
all proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and resolutions that are required to
be published by this code or by state statute. (1972 Code)
1-8-4: ORDINANCES:
The city clerk shall record in full, uniformly and permanently, all ordinances
and he shall authenticate the same. (1972 Code)
1-8-5: ELECTION RECORDS:
The city clerk shall keep and maintain all election records and have custody of
all property used in connection with elections. (1972 Code)
1-8-6: OFFICIAL SEAL:
The city clerk shall be the custodian of the official seal of the municipality.
(1972 Code)
1-8-7: COPIES OF RECORDS:
The city clerk shall furnish to any member of the governing body a certified
copy of any record or document in his custody and he may furnish such a copy to
any other person upon payment of a fee to be determined by the governing body.
(1972 Code)
1-8-8: LICENSES:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office, the city clerk shall issue all licenses in accordance with the
provisions of this code. A record of all licenses issued, including the name of
the person to whom issued, the amount of the license fee, and the purpose of
the license shall be kept. (1972 Code)
1-8-9: CLAIMS:
All claims against the municipality must be filed in writing with the city
clerk. Claims must present a full account of the items and must contain
verification under oath by the claimant to the effect that the claim is
correct, reasonable and just and that no part of said claim has been paid. All
such claims must be approved by the governing body before payment can be made.
(1972 Code)
1-8-10: PRIVILEGE TAXES:
The city clerk shall collect all privilege taxes due the municipality. (1972
Code)
1-8-11: OTHER FEES:
All fees, fines and penalties due the city shall be paid to the city clerk.
(1972 Code)
1-8-12: EX OFFICIO OFFICER:
The city clerk shall perform all the duties of the assessor, treasurer and
auditor of the city, as set forth in the charter that are not delegated to
other city officials or elsewhere provided for herein. (1972 Code)
1-8-13: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
The mayor, with the consent of the council, shall appoint a deputy city clerk
who shall perform in the same manner and with like power and effect any and all
duties of the city clerk. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 9
BUILDING INSPECTOR AND ZONING OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Office Created
1-9-2: Qualifications
1-9-3: Appointment
1-9-4: Duties
1-9-5: Compensation
1-9-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of building inspector and zoning officer
under the direction of the mayor and common council. (1972 Code)
1-9-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The building inspector and zoning officer shall be a person who has had
experience in the carpentry, masonry, electrical and plumbing crafts. He shall
reside within the city and have sufficient free time from other business and/or
employment to perform the duties assigned herein. (1972 Code)
1-9-3: APPOINTMENT:
The building inspector and zoning officer shall be appointed by the mayor and
approved by three (3) members of the common council for a term not to exceed
that of the common council. (1972 Code)
1-9-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Enforce the city building code.
   B.   Enforce the provisions of the city zoning ordinance.
   C.   Attend all meetings of the planning and zoning commission as a
nonvoting member. (Ord. 2004-11, 11-30-2004)
   D.   Attend all official meetings of the historic preservation commission as
a nonvoting member.
   E.   Prepare monthly reports for submission to the common council to include
number of permits issued and inspections completed for the month as well as all
revenues collected. Make a monthly oral report to the common council at their
regular meeting held on the third Tuesday of every month. This reporting shall
separate out activities within the historic preservation district as opposed to
the remainder of Tombstone. (Ord. 2004-11, 11-30-2004; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-
2015)
   F.   Receive applications for proposed structural, electrical and/or
plumbing construction, alterations and/or changes and confer and advise on
necessary work proposed.
   G.   Certify as to compliance with plans and specifications on structural,
electrical and plumbing work.
   H.   Enforce rules and regulations; types and classes of materials; and the
method, manner and workmanship for the installation of plumbing, gas and
electrical equipment.
   I.   Keep a complete record of all applications for permits, of all permits
so issued and of all inspections made under each permit. Enforce the compliance
of required entities in obtaining such permits.
   J.   Make recommendations to the mayor and common council which he may deem
practicable in connection with the duties of the building official and with
city planning and zoning ordinances. (Ord. 2004-11, 11-30-2004)
   K.   Maintain effective working relationships in the public works
department, the historic preservation commission and the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. 2004-11, 11-30-2004; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
1-9-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation for the building inspector and zoning officer shall be
established annually (July 1) by the common council. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 9A
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Office Created
1-9A-2: Qualifications
1-9A-3: Appointment
1-9A-4: Duties
1-9A-5: Compensation
1-9A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of director of public works under the
direction of the mayor and common council. (Ord. 7-78-79, 6-18-1979)
1-9A-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The director of public works shall be a person who is a qualified elector of
the city. (Ord. 7-78-79, 6-18-1979)
1-9A-3: APPOINTMENT:
The director of public works shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by at
least three (3) members of the common council, and shall hold office during the
term of the appointing authority unless sooner removed by said authority. (Ord.
7-78-79, 6-18-1979)
1-9A-4: DUTIES:
The director of public works shall perform all duties prescribed in this code
for the public works official, public works administrative authority,
supervisor of public works and/or director of public works, and enforce
title 3, chapter 2 and
title 8 of this code. (Ord. 7-78-79, 6-18-1979)
1-9A-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation for the director of public works shall be established annually
by the mayor and common council. (Ord. 7-78-79, 6-18-1979)
CHAPTER 10
FIRE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-10-1: Office Created
1-10-2: Appointed
1-10-3: Assistant Fire Chief
1-10-4: Duties
1-10-5: Rejecting Person Elected
1-10-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of fire chief under the direction of the
mayor and council. (1972 Code)
1-10-2: APPOINTED:
The fire chief shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the common
council. (Ord. 2004-09, 12-21-2004)
1-10-3: ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF:
The fireman who has served the longest in that capacity shall be designated the
assistant fire chief. In the absence of the fire chief from the city, or his
inability to act, the assistant fire chief shall act as fire chief with full
power until the aforesaid fire chief is able to perform the duties of his
office. (1972 Code)
1-10-4: DUTIES:
   A.   The fire chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern
the department and shall be responsible for the personnel, morale and general
efficiency of the department.
   B.   The fire chief shall determine the number and type of companies of
which the fire department is to be composed and shall determine and direct the
response of the companies to alarms and other emergencies.
   C.   The fire chief shall conduct regular and suitable drills or instruction
necessary to maintain the proficiency of the department in the achievement of
its mission.
   D.   The fire chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin, and circumstances of all fires.
   E.   The fire chief shall ensure that complete records are kept of all
fires, inspections, apparatus and equipment, personnel and other information
pertinent to the work of the department.
   F.   It shall be the duty of the fire chief to examine and report all
property belonging to and/or in the custody of the fire department to the
common council at least once a year, giving a correct statement of all property
under his or her charge and the condition of the same.
   G.   The fire chief shall make requisitions of the city clerk for all
supplies required by the department, or repairs, equipment and/or machinery of
said department.
   H.   It shall be the duty of the fire chief to report to the city clerk all
persons violating any of the fire regulations that may come to his or her
knowledge.
   I.   The fire chief shall make written and verbal reports to the mayor and
council as they may require. (Ord. 2004-09, 12-21-2004)
1-10-5: REJECTING PERSON ELECTED:
If in the judgment of the common council, the person elected is not a suitable
person to hold the office of fire chief; it shall be the duty of the common
council to notify the acting fire chief, giving the reasons in writing for
rejecting the person so elected. It shall be the duty of the acting fire chief
to immediately call an election to fill the vacancy in said office. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-11-1: Director
1-11-2: Duties
1-11-3: Organization
1-11-4: Violations
1-11-1: DIRECTOR:
The office of director of civil defense is hereby created. The director shall
be appointed and serve at the will of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 186, 6-
13-1960; amd. 1972 Code)
1-11-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the director of civil defense shall include the following:
   A.   The recommendation for adoption by the mayor and city council of a
civil defense plan.
   B.   The maintenance of necessary liaison between the city council and the
civil defense organization and with other civil defense organizations.
   C.   The control and direction of the training of the civil defense
organization.
   D.   Such other duties as prescribed by law or by regulation adopted by the
mayor and city council. (Ord. 186, 6-13-1960; amd. 1972 Code)
1-11-3: ORGANIZATION:
The civil defense organization of the city shall consist of the officers and
employees of the city designated by regulations as well as all volunteer
defense workers. The functions and duties of the organization shall be
distributed between such divisions and services as shall be prescribed by
regulation of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 186, 6-13-1960; amd. 1972 Code)
1-11-4: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any
member of the civil defense organization in carrying out his duties under this
chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display any
emblem, insignia or other means of identification as a member of the civil
defense organization unless so authorized by the proper officials. (Ord. 186,
6-13-1960; amd. 1972 Code)
CHAPTER 12
CITY MAGISTRATE
SECTION:
1-12-1: Appointed
1-12-2: Court Established
1-12-3: Place Of Court
1-12-4: Assistant Magistrate
1-12-5: Diversion Program
1-12-1: APPOINTED:
The mayor and council shall appoint a city magistrate who shall hold a term of
office for two (2) years to coincide with election years at a salary to be
determined by them. (Ord. 7-1996, 9-6-1996)
1-12-2: COURT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established in the city a magistrate's court which shall have
exclusive original jurisdiction of all proceedings for the violation of any of
the provisions of this code.
In addition to the jurisdiction conferred upon the magistrate's court herein,
said court shall have such jurisdiction as is conferred by the city charter
upon the recorder's court.
The mayor and the council do hereby approve the imposition of an award of
reasonable attorney fees and costs upon any person having pled guilty, having
been found guilty, or having agreed to participate in a diversion program where
the end result is a dismissal of the matter. (Ord. 11-67-68, 4-23-1968)
1-12-3: PLACE OF COURT:
The magistrate's court shall be held in the city hall and the same shall be
open on such days and for such hours as the mayor and council designate. (Ord.
11-67-68, 4-23-1968)
1-12-4: ASSISTANT MAGISTRATE:
The mayor, with the approval of the council, shall appoint an assistant
magistrate to act in the absence of or in the disqualification of the
magistrate. (1972 Code)
1-12-5: DIVERSION PROGRAM:
   A.   Establishment: The city attorney shall establish a diversion program
that provides for the dismissal of a criminal complaint on successful
completion of the program's requirements. Diversion shall not be available to
persons accused of a crime involving the discharge, use or threatening
exhibition of a deadly weapon or dangerous instrument. The city attorney or an
appointed prosecutor working on behalf of the city attorney has sole discretion
to decide whether to divert prosecution of an offender when the diversion
occurs before a guilty plea or trial. The diversion program may be structured
to require a guilty plea before entry into the program. The prosecutor shall
consider, at a minimum, the following factors before placing a defendant into
the diversion program: 1) whether the defendant was cooperative with the law
enforcement officer(s) making the arrest, 2) whether the incident is a
nonviolent offense, 3) whether there is evidence of remorse on the part of the
defendant, 4) the defendant's prior criminal/traffic record, 5) whether there
are any criminal cases or alcohol related traffic offenses pending against the
defendant at the present time and any other factor that the court deems
relevant, 6) the wishes of a victim, if any. The court may also decline to
admit a defendant into the program if, at the court appearance, it is found the
defendant has an active arrest warrant.
   B.   Program Completion: The Tombstone magistrate diversion program is for
certain nonviolent misdemeanor offenses, committed by first time offenders.
Upon successful completion of the program, charges are dismissed and the
records in the case are sealed from public inspection. The defendant shall be
required to pay all court cost associated with the charge as well as a
diversion fee as stated below. If the defendant fails to successfully complete
the diversion program, the defendant shall be found guilty of all charges and
the court shall proceed to sentencing. A hearing shall be scheduled at which
the court determines whether the defendant has successfully completed the
program.
   C.   Admittance To Program: At pretrial/trial, if the prosecutor determines
that the defendant is a candidate for the program, the prosecutor may make a
motion that the defendant be admitted to the program. The defendant enters the
diversion program by signing a program agreement. The court will hold the
matter in abeyance for a period not longer than six (6) months.
   D.   Program Requirements: While enrolled in the program, all participants
must remain law abiding and have no further criminal offenses or alcohol
related traffic offenses. Individuals may be ordered to abstain from alcohol/
drugs of abuse, be subject to random alcohol/drug screening, obtain a GED or
high school diploma if applicable, obtain employment, complete community work
service and/or comply with any additional appropriate terms. In cases where
victim restitution is applicable, the court shall order the defendant to pay
restitution. Additionally, the participant must pay all court costs and
diversion fees before the matter is dismissed. Participants may be ordered to
complete an educational instruction program at their own expense.
   E.   Diversion Program Fee Rate: The city attorney's prosecutor diversion
program fee rate shall be set in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for any person accepted by the city attorney's prosecutor into the
diversion program. The diversion program fee shall be collected by the office
of the city clerk. (Ord. 2014-05, 8-19-2014)
CHAPTER 13
CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-13-1: Office Created
1-13-2: Duties
1-13-3: Qualifications
1-13-4: Outside Engineering Assistance
1-13-5: Salary
1-13-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city engineer under the direction of the
mayor and common council. (1972 Code)
1-13-2: DUTIES:
   A.   To advise the mayor and common council on all pertinent matters
relative to engineering, operation and maintenance of the city owned water
utility; the city garbage and trash disposal system; public thoroughfares
within the city; public parks, buildings, swimming pools, and recreation areas;
the city fire alarm system; the police call system; the street lighting system
and other matters that the common council may from time to time consider to
place under the advisory capacity of the city engineer.
   B.   He shall be custodian of and maintain in the city hall a file that will
contain, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Official survey maps of the city.
      2.   A street lighting map of the city.
      3.   Fire protection map of the city to include the communication system
for reporting fires.
      4.   Water distribution system of the city.
      5.   Maps depicting the mountain springs and aqueduct to the city
reservoir.
      6.   Zoning map of the city.
      7.   Street improvement map of the city.
      8.   Easements over private property.
      9.   Other document of engineering interest to the city.
   C.   He shall be a member of the planning and zoning commission.
   D.   He shall attend the monthly common council meetings, unless excused by
the council, and report on all matters that have been referred to him by the
council.
   E.   He may propose to the common council for consideration proposals that
he deems proper for the maintenance and improvement of the general health and
welfare of the inhabitants of the city. (1972 Code)
1-13-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The person appointed to the office shall have an engineering background
and shall be an elector of the city.
   B.   He shall be able to devote at least forty (40) hours per month to his
appointed office. (1972 Code)
1-13-4: OUTSIDE ENGINEERING ASSISTANCE:
Realizing the wide range of engineering, as such, and the many facets thereto,
the city engineer may recommend to the common council the employment of a
specific engineer or engineering firm and work with him or them in arriving at
a solution to a problem that is to the best interest of the inhabitants of the
city. (1972 Code)
1-13-5: SALARY:
The salary of the city engineer shall be established annually (July 1) by the
common council. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 14
CITY MARSHAL
SECTION:
1-14-1: Office Created
1-14-2: Appointment
1-14-3: Salary
1-14-4: Duties
1-14-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There shall be and is hereby created the office of city marshal under the
direction of the mayor and common council. Wherever the city charter uses the
words "chief of police" they will be interpreted as "city marshal". The city
marshal shall be officially addressed as the "marshal of Tombstone". (Ord.
2013-06, 2-12-2013)
1-14-2: APPOINTMENT:
The city marshal shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by at least three
(3) members of the common council for a term not to extend past the terminating
date of the approving council. Such appointment may be terminated in accordance
with article V, section 1 of the city charter. (Ord. 2013-06, 2-12-2013)
1-14-3: SALARY:
The salary of the city marshal shall be such sum as determined by the common
council. (1972 Code)
1-14-4: DUTIES:
The city marshal shall:
   A.   Exercise supervisory jurisdiction and authority over the marshal's
department subject to direction from the board of police commissioners, the
city charter and this code.
   B.   Be responsible and accountable for all property assigned to the
marshal's department.
   C.   Execute and return all processes issued by the city magistrate or
directed to him by any competent authority of the city of Tombstone.
   D.   Attend upon the magistrate's court regularly.
   E.   Perform such duties as shall be prescribed to him by ordinance,
resolution or order of said city authorities. (Ord. 05-72-73, 4-16-1973)
CHAPTER 15
CITY WORK FORCE
SECTION:
1-15-1: Establishment
1-15-2: Personnel
1-15-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There shall be and there is hereby created a city work force consisting of all
regular and temporary, full time and part time employees of the city except
elected officials, officers of the city appointed by the common council
pursuant to statute, persons engaged under contract to supply expert,
professional or technical services for a definite period of time, volunteer
firemen, members of the police department, and volunteer personnel who receive
no regular compensation from the city. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-17-2001)
1-15-2: PERSONNEL:
Personnel of the city work force include those individuals mentioned above, who
are employed by the city at the time of adoption of this code and any and all
others whom the common council, or its authorized agent, officer or department
head, shall from time to time designate, appoint, and hire. Where applicable,
personnel of the city work force shall come under the regulations set forth in
chapter 16, "Merit System", of this title. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-17-2001)
CHAPTER 16
MERIT SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-16-1: Adoption
1-16-2: Scope
1-16-3: Appointments
1-16-4: Separations
1-16-5: Rules; Regulations
1-16-6: Political Contributions
1-16-1: ADOPTION:
In order to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with
personnel matter; to attract to municipal service the best and most competent
persons available; to assure that appointments and promotions of city employees
will be based upon merit and fitness, free of personal political consideration,
the following merit system for city employees is hereby adopted. (1972 Code)
1-16-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all employees of the city except
elected officials, officers of the city appointed by the council pursuant to
statute, persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional or
technical services for a definite period of time, temporary employees,
volunteer firemen and volunteer personnel who receive no regular compensation
from the city. (1972 Code)
1-16-3: APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Appointments to vacant positions or promotions shall be based on merit
and fitness to be ascertained so far as practicable by competitive examination
or personal evaluation of applicants experience and aptitude. Physical and
medical tests may be given as a part of any examination.
   B.   The appointing authority, as designated by the council, shall post a
notice of all vacant positions to be filled at least ten (10) days prior to the
date such position or positions are to be filled on the official bulletin board
of the city. The notice shall contain the title of the position, duties to be
performed, salary or salary range to be paid, the person authorized to accept
applications, and the date of examination if such is to be given.
   C.   The appointing authority, after examination and/or evaluation of all
the applicants, shall appoint the applicant deemed to be the most qualified, on
the basis of merit and fitness, to the vacant position or a position created by
the common council. Notice of appointment shall be posted on the official
bulletin board of the city for at least ten (10) days. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-17-2001)
1-16-4: SEPARATIONS:
   A.   The tenure of every employee shall be conditioned on good behavior and
the satisfactory performance of the duties and responsibilities assigned him.
Any employee may be temporarily separated by layoff or suspension, or
permanently separated by resignation or dismissal.
   B.   An employee may be suspended for a period not to exceed fifteen (15)
working days, without pay, when in the judgment of the appointing authority an
employee's work performance or conduct justifies such disciplinary action.
   C.   An employee may be dismissed or demoted effective immediately whenever
in the judgment of the appointing authority the employee's work or misconduct
so warrants. When the appointing authority decides to take such action he shall
file with the employee and the council a written notification containing a
statement of the reasons for the action. The notice shall inform the employee
that he shall be allowed two (2) calendar weeks from the effective date of the
action to file a reply with the appointing authority and the council and to
request a hearing before the council.
   D.   If the employee files a reply within the prescribed period, the council
shall schedule a hearing. At the discretion of the employee the hearing may be
private or open to the public. In conducting such hearing the proceedings shall
be informal.
   E.   The council's findings and recommendations shall be final. Should the
council not sustain the action of the appointing authority the employee shall
be reinstated to his former position without loss of pay. (1972 Code)
1-16-5: RULES; REGULATIONS:
The council may adopt by resolution rules and regulations to give effect to
this chapter, which may be modified or changed from time to time, but such
rules and regulations must follow the generally accepted principles of good
personnel administration. (1972 Code)
1-16-6: POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS:
No officer or official of the city shall use any influence or pressure upon any
employee to obtain an assessment or contribution of money or time, either
direct or indirect, for any political campaign or personal gain. (Ord. 177, 10-
28-1958; amd. 1972 Code)
CHAPTER 17
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Provisions Applicable
1-17-2: Nomination Papers; Requirements
1-17-3: Regular; Special Election Defined
1-17-4: Registration Of Voters; Change Of Registration
1-17-5: Registration Officer; Deputies
1-17-6: Duty Of Registration Officers
1-17-7: Absentee Voting; Registering
1-17-8: Qualifications Of Voters
1-17-9: Change Of Name
1-17-10: Causes For Cancellation
1-17-11: Cancellation For Failure To Vote
1-17-12: Cancellation Upon New Affidavit
1-17-13: Ward Registers
1-17-14: Expenses Of Registration
1-17-15: Duties Of City Clerk
1-17-16: Election Boards; Appointment
1-17-17: Nonpartisan Elections
1-17-18: Declaration Of Election, Primary Elections
1-17-1: PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to all city elections to be held
hereafter, whether regular or special elections. (1972 Code)
1-17-2: NOMINATION PAPERS; REQUIREMENTS:
All nomination petitions and papers shall be in the form as prescribed by the
Arizona Revised Statutes, as they now are, or as they may hereafter be amended,
provided that the number of signatures necessary for the filing of a nomination
petition and paper shall be as set forth in the Arizona Revised Statutes. (1972
Code)
1-17-3: REGULAR; SPECIAL ELECTION DEFINED:
All primary and general elections shall be deemed to be regular elections of
the city; all other elections called pursuant to law shall be deemed to be
special elections. (1972 Code)
1-17-4: REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; CHANGE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   In order to become qualified electors of the city, all persons entitled
by law to register must complete an affidavit of registration which shall
conform to the requirements of the state law of Arizona as set out in Arizona
Revised Statutes, title 9, section 823, or as it may be hereafter amended; said
affidavit of registration must be completed within the time limits set forth
herein.
   B.   A voter may change his place of residence as recorded on the register
at any time prior to the closing of the register.
   C.   No person shall vote at any election, regular or special, in any ward
except the ward in which he has lived for ten (10) days next preceding the
election and as shown on the register. (1972 Code)
1-17-5: REGISTRATION OFFICER; DEPUTIES:
The city clerk shall be the city registration officer, and, as such officer, he
may appoint deputy registrars in the city, any one of whom shall register,
without charge, and in accordance with law, any qualified elector who presents
himself for that purpose. (1972 Code)
1-17-6: DUTY OF REGISTRATION OFFICERS:
   A.   Registration officers and deputies may register qualified electors at
such hours and at such places within the city as the registration officer shall
deem necessary or advisable.
   B.   Every deputy registrar who has authority to register electors outside
the office of the city registrar shall promptly return each completed
registration within five (5) days of the date of registration to the city
registrar.
   C.   Failure of such authorized person to return the completed registration
as prescribed in subsection B of this section shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor, as hereafter provided. (1972 Code)
1-17-7: ABSENTEE VOTING; REGISTERING:
The city hereby adopts the laws of the state of Arizona for the registering and
voting of those persons who are sick and/or disabled, and for those persons who
are temporarily absent from the said city, as said laws now exist or may
hereafter be amended. (1972 Code)
1-17-8: QUALIFICATION OF VOTERS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no person is
entitled to vote at an election in the city who is not qualified to register
and vote at elections of county officers, and who has not resided in the city
for six (6) months preceding the election.
   B.   Any person who has resided for at least six (6) months preceding any
election in an area annexed at least thirty (30) days prior to such election by
the city shall be entitled to vote at any such city election, provided he is
also qualified to register and vote at elections of county officers.
   C.   An elector desiring to affiliate with a political party or organization
other than the one indicated by the record of his registration shall appear
before the city registrar or the deputy registrar and reregister, supplying in
addition to his new political affiliation, the name of the political party
indicated by the record of his prior registration. (1972 Code)
1-17-9: CHANGE OF NAME:
An elector desiring to reregister under a new name, resulting from either a
court order or marriage, shall appear before the city registrar or the deputy
registrar and reregister, and shall state on the new affidavit or registration
his former legal name. (1972 Code)
1-17-10: CAUSES FOR CANCELLATION:
The city hereby adopts the causes for cancellation of registrations as set
forth in the Arizona Revised Statutes, section 16-150A, or as it may hereafter
be amended. (1972 Code)
1-17-11: CANCELLATION FOR FAILURE TO VOTE:
   A.   Following the general election in each even numbered year, the city
registrar shall procure the poll lists containing the names of all electors who
voted at such general election and also the names of all electors who voted at
the preceding primary election, and the registration of an elector who voted at
neither the primary nor the general election shall be canceled and removed from
the general city register.
   B.   The city registrar shall indicate on the face of a canceled
registration the date of cancellation and the fact that it was failure to vote
and shall file the canceled registration in its proper place in the
cancellation binder. (1972 Code)
1-17-12: CANCELLATION UPON NEW AFFIDAVIT:
Upon the receipt of a new application for registration which effects a change
of word, political party, address or name, the city registrar shall remove the
affidavit of registration to which it relates from the general city register,
stamp the latter "canceled" and place the canceled registration in its proper
place in the cancellation binder. (1972 Code)
1-17-13: WARD REGISTERS:
   A.   After the close of registration and prior to each regular or special
election, the clerk shall prepare from the original affidavits of registration
at least two (2) typed lists of all uncanceled registrations of each ward in
the city and such lists shall be the official ward register.
   B.   The official ward register shall contain the names in full, party
affiliation, date of registration and residence address of each elector in the
respective wards. The names therein shall have the same alphabetical order or
arrangement as the original affidavits of registration, and in a column to the
left of the names such names shall be numbered consecutively beginning with
number one in each ward register. (1972 Code)
1-17-14: EXPENSES OF REGISTRATION:
Necessary expenses, including costs of books, blanks and other supplies,
incurred by the city registrar in carrying out the provisions of this chapter
relating to the registration of electors shall be a city charge. (1972 Code)
1-17-15: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
In the registration of electors, the city clerk shall have the same duties as
to registration as are imposed upon the county recorder by the provisions of
title 16, chapter 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, or as hereinafter amended,
insofar as the same may be applicable to the city. (1972 Code)
1-17-16: ELECTION BOARDS; APPOINTMENT:
At least ten (10) days before any election held in the city, the mayor and city
council shall appoint, from the qualified electors thereof, one inspector, two
(2) judges, two (2) clerks and one election marshal, who shall constitute the
election board for the city. (Ord. 199, 8-28-1961; amd. 1972 Code)
1-17-17: NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS:
There shall be nothing on the election ballots on the city of Tombstone,
Arizona, or in the registration for such, which makes reference to any
political party or be otherwise indicative of the support of the candidate.
Any candidate who shall receive a majority of all votes cast at the primary
election held by the city of Tombstone, Arizona, shall be declared elected to
the office for which he is a candidate, effective as of the date of the general
election, and no further elections shall be had as to such candidate. (1972
Code)
1-17-18: DECLARATION OF ELECTION, PRIMARY ELECTIONS:
If at any primary election held as above provided there be any office for which
no candidate is elected, it shall be considered a primary election for
nomination of candidates for such office, and those two (2) candidates
receiving the highest number of votes shall have their names placed upon the
general election ballot, and the winner thereof shall be declared to be
elected. (Ord. 01-73-74, 12-17-1973)
CHAPTER 18
PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
1-18-1: Purchasing Agent
1-18-2: General Procedures
1-18-3: Exclusive Service
1-18-4: Bidding
1-18-5: Determination Of Lowest Responsible Bidder
1-18-6: Performance Bond
1-18-7: Emergency Purchases
1-18-8: Forms
1-18-9: Professional Services
1-18-10: Cooperative Purchasing
1-18-11: Protests And Appeals
1-18-1: PURCHASING AGENT:
   A.   The city clerk or other person as approved and designated by the mayor
and council shall be the purchasing agent for the city of Tombstone. Unless
otherwise required by state law, no purchase or contract for services of any
kind or description, payment for which is to be made from funds of the city,
shall be made by the purchasing agent, or any officer, employee or agent of the
city, except in the manner set forth in this chapter, and unless the purchase
is in accordance with the adopted city budget.
   B.   Payment for purchases or contract services shall be made using an
official accounts payable check or city debit card in accordance with this
chapter and with the following.
   C.   Accounts payable checks will be issued to vendor when all the
supporting procurement documentation has been filed with the city clerk and
will require two signatures. A list of all checks will be represented to the
mayor and council at each regularly scheduled public meeting.
   D.   No payment exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000) will be made with a
city debit or credit card. All payments using this method are subject to all
accounts payable procedures and are required to be presented to the mayor and
council at each regularly scheduled public meeting.
   E.   For purposes of implementation, the term “bid” shall be synonymous with
the term “request for proposals” and either method shall be acceptable for the
procurement of goods and/or services under this chapter.
   F.   The city clerk or other person as approved and designated by the mayor
and council shall issue directions to the city staff providing for a
centralized purchasing procedure, a procedure for disposition of surplus
property, and a periodic inventory of city property. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989;
amd. Ord. 2022-1, 2-8-2022)
1-18-2: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
City purchases or contracts for services shall be made according to the
following:
   A.   Under Five Thousand Dollars: Whenever any contemplated purchase or
contract for services is for the sum of not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), the mayor or the purchasing agent, with the approval of the mayor,
may order the items as needed without further formality.
   B.   Purchases Between Five Thousand and One Dollars And Twenty Thousand
Dollars: Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract for services is for the
sum between five thousand and one dollars ($5,001.00) and twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00), the purchasing agent shall solicit at least three (3)
bids for the item(s) or service(s). The purchasing agent may then award the
purchase or contract of service to the lowest responsible bidder submitting the
quotation, which is most advantageous to the City and conforms in all material
respects to the solicitation. The names of the businesses submitting
quotations, and the date and amount of each quotation, shall be recorded and
maintained as a public record.
   C.   Purchases Over Twenty Thousand and One Dollars: Whenever any
contemplated purchase or contract for services is over twenty thousand and one
dollars ($20,001.00), the purchasing agent shall cause to be published in one
issue of a local newspaper of general circulation a notice inviting bids, which
said notice shall be published at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for
the receipt of the bids. The notice herein required shall include a general
description of the articles to be purchased or services to be performed and the
time and place for opening bids. In addition, the purchasing agent shall post a
notice inviting bids in the city and may also mail to all responsible
prospective suppliers a copy of the notice inserted in the newspaper as herein
required.
   D.   When Council Approval Required: No purchase or contract over twenty
thousand and one dollars ($20,001.00) shall be made, created or executed, nor
shall the purchase of contract over twenty thousand and one dollars
($20,001.00) be binding on the city, without express approval of the mayor and
common council. Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract is valued at
more than twenty thousand and one dollars ($20,001.00), the mayor or purchasing
agent shall present the bids to the common council for approval.
   E.   Procurement requirements shall not be artificially divided or
fragmented so as to constitute a purchase under this section and to circumvent
the source selection procedures required by any section in this chapter. (Ord.
2-2001, 7-17-2001; amd. Ord. 2022-1, 2-8-2022)
1-18-3: EXCLUSIVE SERVICE:
In the event that there is only one firm or company or individual capable of
providing a particular service or commodity and such services or commodities
cannot be secured from other persons or companies, section
1-18-2 of this chapter shall not be applicable and such services or commodities
can be secured without bidding. Provided, however, no services or commodities
shall be secured herein without the approval of the mayor and council of the
city of Tombstone. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989)
1-18-4: BIDDING:
The purchasing agent and all parties contracting with the city shall follow the
procedure hereinafter set forth in relation to all bidding:
   A.   All notices and solicitation of bids shall state the time and place for
opening.
   B.   All bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
   C.   All bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notice.
   D.   A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for at least five (5)
days in the city complex for public inspection.
   E.   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require bid guarantees
for up to five percent (5%) of the amount of the bid. The bid guarantee shall
consist of a certified check, cashier's check or surety bond and shall
guarantee that the contractor or bidder will enter into a contract or provide
the product in accordance with the bid, or as liquidated damages in the event
of failure or refusal to enter into a contract or provide the product.
      The certified check, cashier's check, or surety bond shall be returned to
the bidder whose proposal is not accepted, and to the successful bidder upon
the execution of a satisfactory contract or delivery of the product.
   F.   The purchasing agent under subsections
1-18-2A, B and C of this chapter and the mayor and council under subsection
1-18-2D of this chapter shall have the authority to reject any and all bids and
parts of all bids and readvertise or resolicit bids. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989;
amd. Ord. 2022-1, 2-8-2022)
1-18-5: DETERMINATION OF LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER:
Unless the mayor and council or the purchasing agent shall exercise the right
of rejection as provided by subsection
1-18-4F of this chapter, the purchase or contract shall be made from and with
the lowest responsible bidder from the entire purchase or contract for any part
thereof. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the mayor and council
and purchasing agent shall consider:
   A.   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the contract
or provide the service required.
   B.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the services
promptly or within the specified time, without delay or interference.
   C.   The quality of performance of previous contracts.
   D.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances of the city.
   E.   The financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the
contract.
   F.   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
services. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989)
1-18-6: PERFORMANCE BOND:
The purchasing agent, after seeking and obtaining the approval of the mayor and
council, shall have the authority to require a performance bond, in cash or
otherwise, for such amount as he or she deems sufficient to secure the
execution of the contract for the best interest of the city. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-
17-1989)
1-18-7: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchases of supplies or
services and time is of the essence, the mayor shall be empowered to authorize
the purchasing agent to purchase or secure services without complying with
procedures as set forth above. A full report, in writing, of the circumstances
of any emergency purchase shall be filed by the purchasing agent with the mayor
and common council at its next meeting. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989)
1-18-8: FORMS:
The purchasing agent shall prescribe and maintain such forms as necessary for
the operation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989)
1-18-9: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:
Unless required by the mayor and council, the bidding requirements of this
chapter shall not apply to professional services and the requirements herein
shall not be required in the employment of professional services. Such services
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: physicians, attorneys,
accountants, information technology professionals, local artists, architects,
and engineers. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989; amd. Ord. 2022-1, 2-8-2022)
1-18-10: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING:
This chapter shall not apply to purchases made by, through or with the state of
Arizona, or its political subdivisions. The city may make purchases or award
contracts for services without a formal bidding process whenever other
governmental units have done so for the same item or service if, in the opinion
of the purchasing agent, a separate bidding process is not likely to result in
a lower price for such items or services. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989)
1-18-11: PROTESTS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Any bidder wishing to protest the bidding procedure shall file a
written objection setting forth the grounds relied upon with the purchasing
agent within five (5) days of the bid opening. The purchasing agent shall
review and decide on the protest as soon as practicable, but not less than ten
(10) days after the protest is filed. The purchasing agent shall immediately
notify the objecting bidder of his/her determination. The objecting bidder may
appeal the purchasing agent's decision by filing a written notice with the city
clerk within five (5) days of the decision. The mayor and council shall conduct
a hearing at the next regular or special meeting on said protest.
   B.   A bidder may make an oral protest to the city clerk. The objection and
grounds therefor shall be put into writing by the city clerk and signed by the
person protesting. (Ord. 3-1989, 4-17-1989)
CHAPTER 19
PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-19-1: Purpose
1-19-2: Organization For Personnel Administration
1-19-3: Definitions Of Terms
1-19-4: General Provisions
1-19-4-1: Provisions Covered By The Rules
1-19-4-2: Administration Of The Rules
1-19-4-3: Department Regulations
1-19-4-4: Prohibition Of Political Activity
1-19-4-5: Prohibition Of Discrimination
1-19-4-6: Unlawful Acts Prohibited
1-19-4-7: Employment Of A Relative
1-19-4-8: Outside Employment
1-19-4-9: Appearance And Conduct
1-19-4-9.5: Drug Free Workplace Policy
1-19-4-10: Attendance
1-19-4-11: Hours Of Work
1-19-4-12: Use Of City Property
1-19-4-13: Use Of City Owned Vehicles
1-19-4-14: Safety
1-19-4-15: Reporting Accidents And Injuries
1-19-4-16: Selling And Peddling
1-19-4-17: Conflict Of Interest
1-19-4-18: Maintenance Of Records
1-19-4-19: Reporting Changes In Name, Address And Dependents
1-19-4-20: Promotion
1-19-4-21: Transfer
1-19-4-22: Equal Opportunity
1-19-4-23: Rehiring Of Retired Employees
1-19-4-24: Physical Examination
1-19-4-25: Suggestions
1-19-5: Classification
1-19-6: Requirements For Original Employment
1-19-7: Selection And Appointment
1-19-8: Transfer, Promotion And Reinstatement
1-19-9: Personnel Files
1-19-10: Staff Development And Training
1-19-11: Employee Discipline
1-19-12: Grievance Procedures
1-19-13: Safety Program
1-19-14: Performance Ratings
1-19-15: Separations
1-19-16: Probationary Period
1-19-17: Attendance, Holidays, Vacations And Other Leaves
1-19-18: Compensation
1-19-19: Minimum Wages, Pay And Overtime, Standby And Callback
1-19-20: Agency Provided Benefits
1-19-1: PURPOSE:
The City of Tombstone, in extending services to its citizens, acknowledges that
the well being of its employees is essential in maintaining a high standard of
operation and that the interests of the City and its employees are harmonious
rather than conflicting. A sound employee-management association makes it
possible for the City Clerk, department managers, and the employees to
cooperatively develop an adequate personnel program. These rules set forth the
principles and procedures which will be followed by the City in the
administration of its personnel program. They are intended to establish an
efficient, equitable and functional system of personnel administration based on
merit principles which govern the employment, promotion, transfer, layoff,
dismissal, discipline, and other related conditions of employment. (Res. 28-
1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-2: ORGANIZATION FOR PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Mayor; City Council: The Mayor and the City Council shall be the
ultimate policy making authority for the City in matters pertaining to
personnel administration.
   B.   City Clerk: The function of the City Clerk is to aid in the formulation
of personnel policies, to prescribe procedure and administer policies and
procedures with the aim of facilitating personnel administration for the
operating departments. The City Clerk is charged by the City Council with
ensuring the continued fair administration of the personnel program which shall
include recruitment, interviewing, testing job applicants (where applicable),
maintaining eligible lists from which appointments are made, ensuring that all
appointments are made on the basis of merit, aiding in the formulation and
interpretation of personnel policy, maintaining the classification plan,
administering the pay plan, keeping records on all employees, supervising the
grievance procedures, promoting training programs, and fostering good employee
relations. He shall also be responsible for maintaining the appropriate
discipline among City employees and accomplishing such other personnel matters
as deemed appropriate by the Mayor and the City Council.
   C.   Scope: All positions of the City are divided into the classified,
management, unclassified, temporary and seasonal positions.
   D.   Unclassified Positions: Unclassified positions include the following:
      1.   All elected officials and members of boards and commissions.
      2.   Volunteer personnel and personnel appointed to serve without pay on
ad hoc committees.
      3.   Consultants and counselors providing temporary professional service.
   E.   Management Positions: Management positions shall include salaried
personnel as follows:
      1.   City Clerk;
      2.   Director of Public Safety/City Marshal; and
      3.   Director of Public Works.
   F.   Temporary And Seasonal Positions: Positions involving temporary or
seasonal employment as defined herein.
The classified services shall include all other positions in the City service
that are not specifically placed in management, unclassified, or temporary and
seasonal positions by these rules and regulations.
When these policies and regulations become effective, all persons holding
positions included in the classified services shall have permanent status if
they have held their present position for at least six (6) months immediately
preceding the effective date of these rules and regulations.
The policies established by these rules shall apply to all positions in the
management or classified service in all departments and agencies of the City
and to such positions in the unclassified services as may be provided herein.
   G.   Administration: The personnel program established by the rules and
regulations shall be administered by the City Clerk or his/her designated
representative. The City Clerk or his/her designated representative shall:
      1.   Attend all meetings of the Personnel Board.
      2.   Administer all provisions of these rules and regulations.
      3.   Prepare and recommend revisions and amendments to these rules and
regulations. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-3: DEFINITIONS OF TERMS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated throughout
these rules except where the context clearly indicates otherwise:
ALLOCATION: The establishment of a position in a department budget and approved
by the City Council.
ANNIVERSARY DATE: The calendar date upon which employment started with the City
of Tombstone by a specific employee. The effective date of any salary increase
or decrease shall also constitute the employee anniversary date for such
increase or decrease. An anniversary date will be adjusted to exclude the
calendar days of suspension and leave of absence without pay.
APPEAL: A request to the Personnel Board pursuant to this Code. Such shall be
limited to action taken by the City which involves, as a disciplinary action,
dismissal, separation from service, reduction in grade or suspension without
pay. All other appeals to the Personnel Board, except as provided, are
specifically prohibited. The right of appeal hereunder extends to all permanent
employees in the management and classified service.
APPOINTING AUTHORITY: An employee or the City Council, having the power of
appointment and removal of subordinate positions in any office authorized by
the City Council in the budget, or any group of persons having the power by
virtue of the City ordinances or State Statutes, or other lawfully delegated
authority to make appointments to specific positions in the Municipal service
of the City.
APPOINTMENT: The designation of a person to a position in a management,
classified, temporary or seasonal position authorized by the City Council in
the budget.
BOARD: Personnel Board. Created by this ordinance and consisting of five (5)
members including the Mayor and City Council.
CLASS: One or more positions sufficiently similar in respect to assigned work
duties and responsibilities that the same class title may be reasonably and
fairly used to designate each position allocated to the class and that the same
minimum education and work may apply with equity.
CLASS SERIES: The arrangement in sequence of classes that are alike in kind of
work and responsibility, but not at the level of assigned work and
responsibility.
CLASS SPECIFICATION: A written statement of the characteristics, duties,
responsibilities, and qualification requirements that distinguish a specific
class from other classes.
CLASSIFICATION: The original assignment of the position to an appropriate class
on the basis of the kind, difficulty and responsibility of work.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Time off from work in lieu of monetary payment for
overtime work.
CONTINUOUS EMPLOYMENT: The time from original employment to the current date of
employment excluding the calendar days when an employee is absent without leave
or when an employee is under suspension. An employee who returns to work
following a resignation or discharge shall be considered a new employee and
previous employment will not be considered as part of continuous employment.
DEPARTMENT: A major functional unit of the City of Tombstone governmental
structure.
DEPARTMENT MANAGER: The officially appointed manager of any department who is
directly responsible for the administration of the department.
DISMISSAL: The separation of any employee for cause.
EMERGENCY: A sudden and unforeseen happening that requires the unscheduled
service of an employee to protect the health, welfare and safety of the
community.
EMPLOYEE: An employee may be classified as:
   A.   Regular, full time: This person is expected to work at least forty (40)
hours per week in his/her assigned classification.
   B.   Regular, part time: This person may be employed on a regular schedule
of twenty (20) hours or less per week throughout a year. This person may be
assigned to a classification vacated by a regular employee and shall be
entitled to receive the normal fringe benefits.
   C.   Temporary or seasonal: This person may be employed for any number of
hours per week in positions declared to be seasonal or temporary in nature.
This person may be assigned to a classification temporarily vacated by a
regular employee while on military duty or other authorized absence, and is
excluded from receiving normal fringe benefits.
EMPLOYEE EVALUATION: A written appraisal of the job performance of an employee
designed to inform the employee of the manner in which he or she is meeting
standards of performance established by the supervisor, department manager,
City Clerk, or City Council.
GRIEVANCE: A disagreement relating to employment and working conditions or
relationships between an employee and his/her supervisor or other employees.
HOLIDAY: The twenty four (24) hour period starting at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the day observed.
IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father, brother,
sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, parent-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-
law, grandparent, grandchild or other legal dependent of an employee.
LAYOFF: The separation of an employee from City service which has been made
necessary by the lack of work or funds or other reasons not related to fault,
delinquency, or misconduct on the part of the employee.
LEAVE: An authorized absence from regularly scheduled work hours which have
been approved by proper authority.
MERIT PAY INCREASE: An increase in pay from one step to the next higher step in
the same pay grade of the pay schedule which is granted to an employee who is
consistently proficient and exceeds the standards of performance expected of a
competent employee, over a period of time (usually 1 year or more).
OVERTIME: Authorized time worked by a regular full time employee in excess
standard workweek.
PAY GRADE: The identifying number for a single rate or a range of pay rate as
established in the salary grade table.
PAY REDUCTION: A decrease in pay which may result from reduction in grade or
reallocation of a position to a lower grade.
PERMANENT EMPLOYEE: A regular employee who is not serving a probationary
period.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD: Generally a six (6) month or more working tests during
which a regular employee, duly appointed or promoted, is required to
demonstrate his/her fitness by actual performance of the duties of the position
to which he or she is appointed or promoted.
PROMOTION: The movement of any employee from a position of one class to a
position of another class in a higher maximum salary rate.
REDUCTION IN GRADE: The movement of an employee from a position in one class to
a position in the same or another class having a lower maximum salary rate
because of disciplinary reasons, incapacity to perform the work, inefficiency
or unsatisfactory work performance.
REPRIMAND: A formal disciplinary action designed not only to admonish or warn
an employee but also to lead, guide, direct, and instruct the employee in how
to correct and avoid repeating a mistake, infraction, deficiency or problem.
RESIDENT: A person whose principal place of domicile is within the corporate
boundaries of the City of Tombstone, Arizona.
SEPARATION: The termination of employment by reason of disqualification, end of
temporary assignment, layoff, resignation, retirement, dismissal or death.
SHIFT WORKER: An employee whose normal workday consists of an eight (8) hour
shift, which is part of a twenty four (24) hour per day operation three hundred
sixty five (365) days per year.
SICK LEAVE DAY: A day off (equal to 8 hours) granted to an employee due to
illness, injury or quarantine; provided, however, that in the case of firemen
working on twenty four (24) hour shifts, such sick leave day shall be equal to
one 24-hour shift.
STANDARD WORKWEEK: A five (5) day, forty (40) hour week as follows:
   A.   Public Works: Monday through Friday or according to shift assignment.
   B.   Administrative personnel: Monday through Friday, or according to shift
assignment.
   C.   Police Department: Sunday through Saturday, according to shift
assignment.
   D.   Fire Department: Sunday through Saturday, according to shift
assignment.
   E.   Library: Monday through Friday, according to shift assignment.
SUPERVISOR: An employee having authority to, in the interest of the City,
direct the work efforts of other employees and evaluate and recommend their
promotions, discipline and termination.
SUSPENSION: A form of discipline consisting of relieving an employee from work
without pay for a specific period of time depending upon the seriousness of the
act bringing about disciplinary action.
TERMINATION: The permanent separation of an employee from the City of Tombstone
(see definition of separation).
TRANSFER: The movement of an employee from one department, division or unit of
Municipal government to another class having the same maximum salary rate,
involving the performance of similar duties and requiring essentially the same
qualifications.
VACANCY: A duly created position which is not occupied and for which funds have
been provided.
VACATION DAY: One vacation day shall equal eight (8) hours; provided, however,
that in the case of firemen working on twenty four (24) hour shifts, such
vacation day shall be equal to one 24-hour shift.
WORKMENS' COMPENSATION: Benefits received by an employee who is injured while
carrying out his/her assignment, as determined by the applicable Arizona State
laws. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
1-19-4-1: PROVISIONS COVERED BY THE RULES:
These rules shall apply to all classified positions in all departments of the
City and to such positions in the unclassified, management and temporary
service as may be provided herein. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-2: ADMINISTRATION OF THE RULES:
The City Clerk or his designated representative shall be charged with the
responsibility for the administration of these rules. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-
1989)
1-19-4-3: DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS:
These rules shall not be construed as limiting in any way the power and
authority of any department manager to make departmental rules and regulations
governing the conduct and performance of employees. Departmental rules and
regulations shall not conflict with provisions of these rules. Such rules and
regulations, when published and distributed as herein provided, shall have the
force and effect of rules of that department and disciplinary action may be
based upon breach of any such rules and regulations. Department rules and
regulations shall be reviewed and approved by the City Clerk and City Council.
(Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-4: PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
   A.   Any employee in the classified or management service shall not take
part in any election held for the purpose of electing members of the Common
Council or other elective Municipal office of the City except for the casting
of his/her individual ballot. No employee shall be a candidate for the Office
of City Council person or Mayor. Any employee desiring to hold such office
shall resign from their position upon filing for the office. Employment will be
terminated upon the filing for the Office of City Council person or Mayor by an
employee.
   B.   Political activity on the national, State or County level is
unrestricted, except that any employee desiring to hold such office shall
refrain from any campaign activity while on duty as an employee or while
wearing the uniform or insignia of the City. The State level includes any
governmental subdivision of the State except the City of Tombstone. (Res. 28-
1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-5: PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION:
   A.   No person in the classified or management services, or seeking
admission thereto, shall be appointed, promoted, reduced in grade, removed, or
advanced on any basis or for any reason other than for qualification, merit and
fitness for this service or lack thereof.
   B.   No person in an unclassified, classified or management service position
shall use or promise to use, directly or indirectly, any official authority or
influence, whether possessed or anticipated, to secure or attempt to secure for
any reason an appointment or advantage in appointment to a position in the
classified or management service or an increase in pay or other advantage in
employment in any such position, or for the purpose of influencing the vote or
political action of any person. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-6: UNLAWFUL ACTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall wilfully make any false statement, certificate, mark,
rating, or report in regard to any application for employment, test,
certification, or appointment held or made under these rules or ordinances of
the City, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the
impartial execution of such personnel provisions of the rules and regulations
made thereunder.
   B.   No person seeking appointment to or promotion in any position in the
City service shall either directly or indirectly give, promise, render, or pay
any money, service or other valuable thing to any person for, on account of, or
in connection with their test, appointment, proposed appointment, promotion or
proposed promotion. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-7: EMPLOYMENT OF A RELATIVE:
No member of the "immediate family", as defined in section
1-19-3 of this chapter of any full or part time employee of the City shall be
appointed to the classified or management service in the same department. This
provision may be waived by the City Council upon the request, in writing, of
the City Clerk. Additionally, in no case shall a member of the immediate family
of any elected official of the City be appointed to the classified or
management service. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-8: OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT:
Employees of the City may take part time jobs if there is no conflict with
normal working hours, the employee's efficiency in their work is not affected,
or there is no conflict with the interest of the City. The employee shall
advise their department manager of the nature of the outside employment, hours
involved, and any other appropriate information. In any situation where an
extra duty will be necessary in an employee's normal City work, such extra duty
shall be in preference to their outside employment. The following activities,
not all inclusive, are considered to be in conflict or incompatible with City
employment:
   A.   Any employment, activity, or enterprise which involves the use for
private gain or use of the City's time, facilities, equipment, or supplies, or
the prestige or influence of the City office or equipment;
   B.   Any activity which involves receipt or acceptance by an employee of any
money or other consideration from anyone other than the City for performance of
an act which the employee should be required or be expected to render in the
regular course of their City employment or their duty as an employee;
   C.   Any activity which involves the performance of an act other than in
their capacity as a City employee which may later be subject to the control,
inspection, review or enforcement by the employee or the department by which
they are so employed; or
   D.   Any activity which involves so much of the employee's time that it
impairs their attendance or efficiency in the performance of their duty.
   E.   The City Clerk shall make a final determination as to whether a
specific activity is prohibited. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-9: APPEARANCE AND CONDUCT:
Employees of the City shall:
   A.   Maintain a clean, well groomed appearance in keeping with their job and
conducive to good public relations. Department managers shall recommend to the
City Clerk requirements related to dress, personal appearance or hygiene for
employees of their department.
   B.   Treat their supervisors, department manager, City Clerk and Council
members with appropriate respect for the position they hold and carry out all
instructions to the best of their ability.
   C.   Conduct oneself in a manner so as to be a credit to the City, both on
and off duty.
   D.   Be just and honorable in all their relations with each other. They
shall not make false reports or gossip to the discredit or injury of another
City employee or concerning Municipal matters. Nor shall they act in a manner
directed toward creating a disturbance or dissension within City departments.
   E.   Not consume or have in their possession, while on duty, during lunch
break or other authorized work break, any alcoholic beverage or nonprescription
habit forming drug.
   F.   Employees shall not possess any gambling devices or paraphernalia on
City property with the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose, nor
shall employees conduct or attend or make any bet, lottery or gambling hazard
for profit during working hours. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-9.5: DRUG FREE WORKPLACE POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: To establish rules governing the maintenance of a drug free
workplace to: 1) ensure the health and safety of City of Tombstone City
employees, 2) continue the provision of high quality services to the general
public, and 3) comply with Federal and State laws and regulations for a
uniform, government wide, drug free workplace effort.
   B.   Policy Statement: Reporting for work under the influence of alcohol or
drugs, or any substance which impairs an employee’s mental or physical capacity
will not be tolerated. The use of illegal drugs or the misuse of legal drugs or
alcohol by any employee is expressly prohibited as is the presence in any
employee's system of a prohibited drug or drug metabolite. The possession, sale
or distribution of drugs, alcohol, or any illegal substance by an employee
during regular working hours while on City business or while on City property
is expressly prohibited.
   C.   Definitions: The following definitions apply to the drug free workplace
policy:
   ALCOHOL: Ethanol, isopropanol, or methanol.
   DRUGS/CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: The term "drugs" and "controlled substances"
are interchangeable and have the same meaning. Unless otherwise provided, drugs
and controlled substances include, but are not limited to: barbiturate,
cocaine, opiates (heroin, codeine), propoxyphene, amphetamines (including
methamphetamine), benzodiazepines (Valium; Librium), methadone, phencyclidine
(PCP), methaqualone, and cannabinoids (THC).
   EMPLOYEES: For the purpose of the drug free workplace policy "employee"
includes all regular full time, regular part time, probationary, temporary,
seasonal, and contract personnel. "Employee" does not include employees of
other agencies who are performing work for the City of Tombstone.
   REASONABLE CAUSE: A belief based on specific, objective facts, and
reasonable inferences drawn from those facts that suggest an employee is using
drugs while on the job or is under the influence of drugs while on the job.
Reasonable cause generally includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Observable phenomena, such as direct observation of drug or alcohol
use and/or the physical symptoms or manifestations of being under the influence
of a drug or alcohol;
      2.   Abnormal conduct, erratic behavior, absenteeism, tardiness;
      3.   Physical symptoms (i.e., glassy eyes, slurred speech, unsteady gait,
red eyes, running noses);
      4.   Smell of alcohol or marijuana;
      5.   Deterioration in work performance or physical appearance;
      6.   A report of drug alcohol use provided by reliable credible sources
and which has been independently corroborated;
      7.   Evidence that an individual has tampered with a drug or alcohol
test, during his/her employment with the current employer;
      8.   Involvement in or responsibility for, a work related or industrial
accident that caused, or could have caused serious injury to the employees, any
other person, or serious damage to employer property or property belonging to
others;
      9.   Evidence of use, possession, sale, solicitation, or transfer of
drugs or alcohol while working or while on employer's premises.
   D.   Over The Counter Or Prescribed Medications: Employees taking
prescription or over the counter nonprescribed drugs or medication which might
interfere with the performance of his/her job duties shall report the usage of
the drug or medication to his/her supervisor before going on duty. Employees
taking such drugs or medications are responsible for knowing any side effects
of the medication which might interfere with job performance based upon the
prescribing physician's advice or the warning on the medication label.
   E.   Applicants And Employees Subject To Testing:
      1.   Preemployment Testing For Initial Employment: All applicants being
considered for initial paid employment by the City shall be required to submit
to, and successfully pass, a drug screen urinalysis after a conditional offer
of employment is made by the City. The offer of employment shall be contingent
upon a negative drug screening.
If an applicant fails to pass the preemployment drug screening, the applicant
will be disqualified from consideration for employment and shall not be
eligible to apply for employment with the City for a period of twelve (12)
months.
An applicant's failure to submit to the required preemployment drug test shall
be considered as a request for withdrawal from consideration for the position
for which he or she applied.
      2.   Police Department Employees: Any Police Department employee (sworn
or civilian) upon transfer to or from a narcotic or drug related assignment
shall submit to drug and alcohol screening. The transfer shall be contingent
upon a negative result.
      3.   Reasonable Cause Testing: If the City has reason to suspect that an
employee is violating this policy or when there is reasonable cause to believe
an employee is under the influence or is impaired by alcohol and/or drugs, the
City may require the employee to submit immediately to medical tests
administered for drug or alcohol testing which include the chemical analysis of
breath, urine and/or blood. Any tests administered to determine if an employee
is under the influence of alcohol or drugs will be administered at the
employee's expense. The City shall reimburse the employee if tests indicate a
nonpositive test result. In the event of a positive test result, the City may
reimburse the employee, depending on the circumstances.
      4.   Posttriggering Incident: Employees involved in the following
circumstances shall be required to submit to a drug and/or alcohol test:
         a.   Those whose use of City equipment or vehicle results in an
accident in which a person is fatally injured.
         b.   Those whose use of City equipment or vehicle results in an
accident involving tow away and/or medical assistance and who, in addition,
have received a citation from a third party law enforcement official.
         c.   Those that discharge a firearm resulting in bodily injury,
property damage, or violation of departmental policy, either on or off duty.
Any tests administered to determine if an employee is under the influence of
alcohol or drugs will be administered at the employee's expense. The City shall
reimburse the employee if tests indicate a nonpositive result. In the event of
a positive test result, the City may reimburse the employee, depending on the
circumstances.
      5.   Reemployment Or Reentry In Work Force: Any individual who returns to
work after an absence of ninety (90) consecutive days or more shall be required
to submit to a drug and alcohol test prior to resuming work. Positive results
will be considered in deciding whether the employee shall be permitted to
return to work.
      6.   Follow Up Testing: In the event an employee has been offered a
rehabilitation option in lieu of discipline for a positive test result in
accordance with subsection I of this section, the employee shall be subject to
random drug testing for a minimum of one year following the completion of the
program.
   F.   Policy Violation:
      1.   Alcohol: An employee who tests positive for alcohol while on City
business during the employee's regular working hours or while on City property
during the employee's regular working hours shall be in violation of this
policy.
      2.   Drugs: An employee who test positive for drugs shall be in violation
of this policy.
   G.   Effect Of Failure To Comply With Policy: An employee who refuses to
submit to a drug or alcohol test or who violates any aspect of this policy is
subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
   H.   Employee And Applicant Consent Forms: Employees and applicants who are
requested to submit to a drug test must agree in writing to allow the results
of such tests to be disclosed to and used by the City's authorized
representatives who have a need to know. Failure to sign such a consent form
shall be considered a refusal to submit to testing.
   I.   Rehabilitation: Depending upon the circumstances, the City may, at its
option, suspend all or part of the disciplinary action for violation of this
policy in return for the employee's enrollment into a drug or alcohol
counseling or rehabilitation program for the purpose of enabling the employee
to permanently cease the prohibited conduct. The program must be one approved
by the City. Cost of rehabilitation or counseling is the responsibility of the
employee.
An employee who elects such participation shall enter into a written agreement
to that effect. The employee may have any disciplinary action deemed
appropriate by the City suspended while counseling and/or rehabilitation is
being utilized. An employee who declines to participate in or fails to complete
drug rehabilitation in lieu of disciplinary action or an employee who, having
successfully participated in such a program, again engages in conduct
prohibited by this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and
including dismissal.
   J.   Searches: The City of Tombstone, through its designated managers and
supervisors, reserves the right to search all areas and property of which the
City maintains complete control or joint control with the employee. An
employee's locker, closet, work area, desk, desk files, computer files, City
owned vehicle, and similar areas are subject to inspection at any time on a
random or any other nondiscriminatory basis for purposes of this policy.
   K.   Confidentiality: The results of drug or alcohol screening tests shall
not be included in an applicant's or an employee's file but shall be retained
by the personnel office in a separate medical file. Any conditions of
employment which may be established as a result of the drug test (i.e., a
written agreement for rehabilitation in lieu of discipline) will become a part
of the employee's personnel file.
Except as required by State or Federal law, test results and ancillary
information may be disclosed to management personnel only on a need to know
basis or to any person upon the written consent of the employee or applicant.
Information normally should be limited to the supervisor, the City Clerk, the
personnel office, and legal counsel. Failure to maintain confidentiality by any
employee shall be grounds for discipline.
All investigations, searches, and testing shall be conducted as privately as
practical.
   L.   Employee Responsibilities:
      1.   Pursuant to the Federal Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988, the City of
Tombstone prohibits the unlawful manufacture, use, possession, or distribution
of controlled substances in the workplace. As a part of this law employees have
the following responsibilities.
         a.   To abide by the terms of the City drug free workplace policy; and
         b.   To notify their supervisor or department head of any criminal
drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace no later
than five (5) days after such conviction.
      2.   It is each employee's responsibility to immediately report unsafe
working conditions or hazardous activities that may jeopardize the safety of
employees to the supervisor, department director, or personnel office. This
includes the responsibility to immediately report any violations of the drug
and alcohol policy. An employee who fails to report such a violation is subject
to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
      3.   All employees will be required, as a condition of employment to sign
a statement that the employee has:
         a.   Received a copy of the City's drug free workplace policy;
         b.   Agreed to abide by the terms of the policy;
         c.   Agreed to notify the supervisor or appropriate representative of
the City immediately, or within five (5) days, of a criminal drug statute
conviction for a violation occurring within the workplace.
   M.   Management Responsibilities:
      1.   Management personnel shall be responsible for the implementation and
consistent enforcement of this policy, together with the personnel officer or
designee. Management personnel who fail to enforce this policy in accordance
with its terms are subject to disciplinary action up to and including
dismissal.
      2.   Supervisors will be trained in the early detection of impairment by
alcohol, drugs, and substance abuse. Supervisors must document, in writing, the
facts constituting reasonable cause for drug and/or alcohol testing or for
violation of this policy.
      3.   Management must inform any employee being required to submit to drug
or alcohol testing of the requirements of this policy and the consequences of
noncompliance.
   N.   Drug And Alcohol Testing Methodology: Every reasonable effort will be
made to obtain the most accurate drug or alcohol test results. Testing
procedures will include a two (2) tiered testing program to ensure maximum
accuracy in the test results, observation of specimen collection, and chain of
custody documentation. A two (2) tiered procedure means that an initial
positive test will be confirmed by the use of a gas chromatography test with
mass spectrometry (GC/MS) or an equivalent scientifically accepted method which
provides quantitative data about the detected drug.
Following a positive screen from the initial test and a positive screen from
the GC/MS test, a portion of the specimen sufficient for testing from a
positive sample may be transferred directly from the testing laboratory to a
laboratory of the employee's choosing and tested at the employee's own expense.
The laboratory chose by the employee must be a laboratory approved or certified
by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the College of
American Pathologists or the Arizona Department of Health Services. The
employee is responsible for initiating the transfer within forty eight (48)
hours of notification of the positive screen.
An employee, upon request, may obtain his/her written results.
   O.   Procedures: Procedures to be followed by management for the enforcement
of this policy are available for review in the personnel office or in each
department with the department head.
A description of the testing methods and collection procedures to be used is
available for review in the personnel office. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
   P.   Commercial Driver's License Holders: Beginning on January 1, 1998, all
employees required as a condition of their City employment to have a valid
commercial driver's license (CDL) shall comply with the United States
Department of Transportation (USDOT) rules for drug and alcohol testing of mass
transit employees and all drivers with CDLs. The USDOT is treating these rules
as an extension of the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991.
These rules require preemployment, postaccident, "reasonable suspicion" and
random testing for alcohol and drugs through the use of Breathalyzer and urine
samples.
Procedures and rules for testing of CDL holders will be available in the
personnel office beginning June 1, 1998. (Ord. 2-1998, 4-20-1998)
1-19-4-10: ATTENDANCE:
Employees shall be in attendance at their place of work in accordance with the
policies regarding hours of work, holidays and leave. If an employee, for some
unavoidable reason, cannot report for work, they shall notify their supervisor
or department manager prior to the first normal duty hours, or within thirty
(30) minutes following the time scheduled to report for work. Failure on the
part of an employee to comply with these policies shall be cause for
disciplinary action. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-11: HOURS OF WORK:
Except for regular part time and temporary employees, eight (8) hours shall
constitute a days' work. Five (5) days of eight (8) hours, or forty (40) hours,
or a shift of twenty four (24) hours and corresponding to seventy two (72)
hours for firemen working a twenty four (24) hour shift, shall constitute a
workweek except for regular part time and temporary employees subject to call
at times prescribed by department regulations. The work schedule of all
employees shall be established by each department manager with approval of the
City Clerk. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-12: USE OF CITY PROPERTY:
   A.   Any employee of the City found responsible for damage to or loss of
City property through negligence or abuse shall be subject to disciplinary
action and may be required to reimburse the City for such damage or loss. No
City equipment, materials or supplies shall be removed from its location
without the approval of the supervisor, department manager or City Clerk.
   B.   Uniforms and protective clothing provided by the City to employees or
owned clothing bearing City identification shall be worn only for official City
duties and, except in the performance of official duties, in no event shall be
worn in bars, liquor establishments, or places of public entertainment. (Res.
28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-13: USE OF CITY OWNED VEHICLES:
Department managers and other employees as designated by the City Clerk and
City Council shall be allowed to use City owned vehicles as transportation to
their homes from their place of work in addition to use during normal working
hours. Such vehicles shall not be used for other than official City business.
They shall be kept clean and driven in a manner so as to conform to existing
traffic regulations and not bring discredit upon the City. (Res. 28-1989, 11-
13-1989)
1-19-4-14: SAFETY:
Employees shall observe prudent safety precautions at all times. Supervisors
and department managers shall train their personnel to work safely. Each
employee shall know what to do in case of fire or other disaster as well as the
location and use of first aid supplies. Safety precautions include the
observance of traffic regulations when driving or operating City vehicles or
equipment. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-15: REPORTING ACCIDENTS AND INJURIES:
Employees shall report all accidents and injuries to their supervisors or
department managers as soon as possible after an accident. Injuries of a minor
first aid nature may be treated at the job site or department office. Rescue
squad services may be used to transport employees to a hospital if the accident
or injury results in the incapacitation of the employee. Within twenty four
(24) hours of the incident, the City employee or their supervisor shall file an
accident injury report with the City Clerk for insurance purposes. Employees
who have an accident with a City owned vehicle shall first notify a law
enforcement agency and then their supervisor or department manager. This shall
be done regardless of how minor the accident may be. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-16: SELLING AND PEDDLING:
No peddling, solicitation or sales for charitable purposes or other reasons
shall be allowed among or by City employees during working hours unless
approved by the City Clerk. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-17: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No employee shall engage in any activity or enterprise which conflicts with
their duties as a City employee or with the duties, functions and
responsibilities of the department in which they are employed. The following
activities shall be exemplary and not limited to the following, and are
considered a conflict of interest of the City employment:
   A.   Any employment, activity or enterprise which involves the use for
private gain of the City's time, facilities, equipment, or supplies, or the
badge, uniform, prestige, or influence of the office of employment.
   B.   Involves the receipt or acceptance by the officer or employee of any
money or other consideration from anyone other than the City for the
performance of an act which the officer or employee would be required or
expected to render in the regular course of City employment or as part of their
duties as a City employee.
   C.   Involves the performance of an act in other than their capacity as a
City officer or employee which may later be subject, directly or indirectly, to
the control, inspection, review, audit or enforcement by such officer or
employee of the department by which they are employed.
   D.   Involves so much of the employee's time that it impairs their
attendance and efficiency in the performance of their duties as a City officer
or employee. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-18: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
The City Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining records on each employee to
include pertinent personnel data such as name, address, telephone number, title
of position held, the department to which assigned, current salary, and change
in employment status. Records shall also include information relative to
completion of training schools as well as professional and technical courses,
accomplishment of work, conformance to expected standards, awards, and such
other information as shall be deemed important. Each employee shall be advised
as to the content of their record, upon request. Records shall be for official
use only and shall not be made available for public use. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-
1989)
1-19-4-19: REPORTING CHANGES IN NAME, ADDRESS AND DEPENDENTS:
Employees shall report to their department manager any change of name resulting
from the change in marital status and any changes of dependents. Also to be
reported, for tax and insurance purposes, are any changes in address, telephone
number, or information which will have an impact on the personnel record of the
employee. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-20: PROMOTION:
Insofar as feasible, higher positions in a given department will be filled by
promotion from among the lower grades of employees within the same department.
The factors in determining promotions will include, but not be limited to,
competitive promotional examination where applicable, efficiency of service,
promise of continued development, education and background, and length of
service. This practice is observed so that both employees and public will
regard the government services as a career; efficiency and ability will be
recognized; and turnover of personnel will be minimized. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-
1989)
1-19-4-21: TRANSFER:
City employees shall have the privilege of requesting a transfer to another
department at any time there is an existing vacancy for which they are
qualified. The City Clerk will determine which employees are qualified for the
vacancy, and ascertain whether or not they are available for temporary or
permanent transfer by consulting with the department manager and receiving his/
her recommendation based on the needs of the department. In all cases, the
needs of the department will prevail. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-22: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY:
No applicant shall be prohibited from securing employment with the City as a
result of their race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or political
affiliation. Nor shall any employee be denied promotional or transfer
opportunity as a result of their race, religion, color, sex, age, national
origin, or political affiliation. Any evidence of discrimination shall be
brought to the attention of the affected employee's department manager and the
City Clerk as appropriate. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-23: REHIRING OF RETIRED EMPLOYEES:
Employees who have been retired from active City employment, whether or not
they are receiving pensions from funds provided by the City, shall not be
eligible for temporary employment pay from any City department funds, except at
the discretion of the City Clerk and City Council. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-24: PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
A physical examination may be required of all persons entering employment with
the City. Should the result of the examination be unsatisfactory in any
respect, the City Clerk may cancel or amend the terms of the offer as he or she
considers necessary. The expense of the medical examination, when required,
shall be borne by the City. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-4-25: SUGGESTIONS:
Suggestions for the improvement of any portion of the City's service are
encouraged and welcome. Suggestions shall be submitted to the department
manager and forwarded to the City Clerk. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-5: CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Preparation Of Plan: The City Clerk, or a person or agency employed for
that purpose, shall ascertain and record the duties and responsibilities of all
positions in the classified service and, after consultation with the managers
of departments affected, shall recommend to the City Council a classification
plan or revisions of such for the positions. The classification plan shall be
so developed and maintained that all positions substantially similar with
respect to duties, responsibilities, authority and character of work are
included within the same class, and the same schedules of compensation may be
made to apply with equity under like working conditions to all positions in the
same class.
The plan shall be amended as the duties, responsibilities and employment
conditions change.
   B.   Adoption, Amendment And Revision Of Plan: The classification plan shall
be adopted and may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   C.   Class Specifications: The City Clerk shall maintain and have on file
copies of current specifications (job descriptions) for all classes in the
classified service.
The specifications shall include title, statements of distinguishing features
of work, examples of work performed, required knowledge, skills and abilities,
desirable experience and training and, for classes requiring necessary special
requirements, a statement of such shall be included.
The class specifications are descriptive only and are not restrictive; they are
intended to indicate the kinds of position classes. It is not intended that a
class specification give a complete resume of all the specific duties, tasks
and responsibilities but rather to give a general picture of essential
characteristics of the class with sufficient allocating factors described to
properly identify the class.
The City Clerk shall, from time to time, or upon request of the City Council,
review the duties, responsibilities and qualifications of all positions in the
City service. The review shall determine whether the positions are properly
classified.
The City Clerk's findings shall be reported City Council who will decide on
reclassification of those positions found to be improperly classified.
If an occupied position is to be reclassified, the occupant shall be informed
five (5) working days prior to Council action. Upon reclassification, the
occupant may be:
      1.   Reclassified and assigned to the new class if the qualification
requirements are substantially alike and the pay range is the same or higher;
or
      2.   Reclassified and assigned to the new class if the qualification
requirements are substantially alike and the pay range is less than the old
class and the occupant consents to such assignment; or
      3.   Transferred to a like or similar position, if available, within the
same or lesser pay range; or
      4.   Terminated and placed on a layoff list in the manner prescribed.
Whenever an occupied position is reclassified and becomes vacant, the position
shall be filled with an eligible applicant from the appropriate eligibility
list as specified.
   D.   Administration Of The Classification Plan: The City Clerk shall
instruct the Personnel Director to conduct position classification studies at
such times as he deems necessary or whenever the duties and responsibilities of
existing positions have undergone significant change. In addition, a
classification study will be made when the City Clerk is notified that new
positions are to be established or upon request of the department manager or
affected employees, if the classification of such position has not been
reviewed within the last twelve (12) months. If the City Clerk finds that a
substantial change in organization, creation or change of position, or other
pertinent conditions made necessary the amendment of the existing class, he may
amend the classification plans subject to review of the Mayor and the City
Council. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR ORIGINAL EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Citizenship: All applicants for City employment, except applicants for
law enforcement positions, who are noncitizens of the United States, must
present evidence as being a citizen of the United States or a legal, registered
alien. All law enforcement applicants must be United States citizens.
   B.   Age: Except for positions of recruit police officers, maximum age
limits shall not be established for any employment in the City service. Except
for veterans, the maximum age limit for the employment of recruit police
officers shall be age thirty five (35). For veterans who served on active duty
(6 months or longer) in any part of the military branch of the United States
government during the time of war (or declared emergency) and who were
honorably discharged or separated, the maximum age limit for employment as a
recruit police officer shall be age forty nine (49). (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
   C.   Residency Requirements: The response and accessibility demands of the
City Clerk, Marshal and Public Works Director are such that residency within
thirty (30) miles of the limits of the City of Tombstone shall be required to
maintain the appointment to such positions. (Ord. 2010-05, 11-9-2010)
   D.   Physical And Mental Fitness: All applicants for City employment shall
have sound physical and mental health. Physical impairments, not of a chronic
or infectious nature, shall be favorably considered if the physical
irregularities are of such nature that the applicant can be expected reasonably
to meet the performance requirements of the positions they seek.
The physical and mental qualifications of persons entering City employment
shall be evaluated by physicians approved by the City prior to final
appointment.
   E.   Hiring Of Relatives: The City shall not permit permanent employees
related by consanguinity or affinity to the degree as follows:
Parent, child, grandparent, granduncle, grandaunt, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in- law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or
sister-in-law may not work within the same department. If one or more of the
relationships outlined above are discovered or created by City employees
working within the same department, division or section, then one or more of
the employees must be transferred. If there is no immediate vacant position to
which to transfer, then the transfer will be accomplished at the earliest
practical date. If two (2) people working in the same department marry, they
may both remain in the department. However, they shall be transferred or
relocated within the department so as to ensure that they do not work within
the same division, section or under the same immediate supervisor.
No City employee shall be in a position where he or she will be supervised by a
relative, as listed above, at any level of supervision. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-
1989)
1-19-7: SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The success of the entire program of service to the public is
directly affected by the selection and placement of personnel. In order to
assure placement of the best candidates for every vacant position, primary
consideration will be given to the capabilities of candidates to perform duties
with a high degree of proficiency.
   B.   Notification For Additional Personnel: Department managers will notify
the City Clerk as far in advance as possible of any requirements for additional
personnel authorized by the City Council setting forth such items as the number
of additional employees desired; education, training and experience required;
and personal qualities preferred. Upon receiving such notice, the City Clerk
shall advise City employees of the vacancy and shall review the request and
feasibility of filling the vacancy by promotion from within the department or
transfer of current City employees from other departments. If there are no
suitable employees available for promotion or transfer to the position, the
position will be filled by appointment from outside the City organization. The
City Clerk will initiate the selection process which may include all of the
following steps:
      1.   Public announcement of the vacancy;
      2.   Receive application;
      3.   Screen applicants for qualifications;
      4.   Administer employment examinations where applicable;
      5.   Arrange for personal interview by department manager;
      6.   Receive recommendation of department manager;
      7.   Physical examination when required;
      8.   Appointment by City Clerk.
   C.   Applicant For Employment: Applicants for employment must be citizens of
the United States or have filed for citizenship or be a legally registered
alien; be at least sixteen (16) years of age; be physically fit for the
performance of the duties of the position for which the application is made;
and be of good moral character. Must possess or be able to secure, prior to
employment, a valid social security number.
   D.   Veteran Preference: Preference in entrance examinations, when required,
but not in promotion, shall be granted to qualified persons who have been
members of the armed forces of the United States and who seek to enter the
service of the City within five (5) years immediately following their honorable
discharge from military service. Such preference shall be in the form of points
added to the final grade of such person, provided that they first achieve a
passing grade. The preference will be five (5) points for nondisabled veterans,
and ten (10) points for persons currently receiving compensation from the
United States veterans administration for war service incurred disabilities.
The rank order of such persons among other eligible shall be determined on the
basis of their augmented rating. (Form DD-214 must be shown in order to receive
points.)
   E.   Disqualification By Reason Of Court Conviction Record: All applicants
for public safety positions who have been convicted of a felony and who have
not received a pardon, restoration of civil rights, or certificate from the
court attesting that they were juvenile at the time of conviction shall have
their applications rejected. All applicants who have been convicted of three
(3) misdemeanors or violations of ordinances, except nonmoving traffic
violations, within the last three (3) years prior to date of application may
have their applications rejected. Any applicant rejected for the above reasons
may appeal to the Personnel Board.
   F.   Disqualification: The City Clerk may refuse to interview or examine an
applicant or, after examination when required, may disqualify such applicants,
remove his/her name from an eligible list, or may consult with the appointing
authority in taking steps to remove such person already appointed if:
      1.   He or she does not meet the preliminary requirements established for
the vacancy.
      2.   He or she is so physically or mentally disabled as to render him/her
unfit for the performance of the duties of the class.
      3.   He or she is addicted to the use of narcotics or the habitual use of
intoxicating liquors to excess.
      4.   He or she has made a false statement of material fact on his/her
application.
      5.   He or she has used or have attempted to use political pressure or
bribery to secure an advantage in the appointment.
      6.   He or she has directly or indirectly obtained information regarding
the examination when administered to which, as an applicant, he or she was not
entitled.
      7.   He or she has failed to submit his/her application correctly or
within the prescribed time limits.
      8.   He or she has taken part in the compilation, administration, or
correction of an examination, when administered, for which he or she is an
applicant.
      9.   He or she has previously been dismissed from a position in the City
service for cause or has resigned while charges for dismissal for cause were
pending.
      10.   He or she has otherwise wilfully violated the provisions of these
rules.
      11.   He or she has established an unsatisfactory employment or personnel
record as evidenced by reference check of such a nature as to demonstrate
unsuitability for employment.
      12.   He or she has taken for another or allowed another to take for him/
her all or part of any examination when required, or has been found cheating in
any other way on the examination.
   G.   Probationary Period: All appointments to positions in the service of
the City are made subject to a probationary period during which time the
employee's performance is subject to close review.
      1.   Purpose: The probationary period shall be utilized by the department
manager as an opportunity to observe the new employee's work, to train and aid
the new employee in adjustment to his/her position, and to reject any employee
whose performance fails to meet required work standards.
      2.   Duration: All original and promotional appointments shall be
tentative and subject to a probationary period of six (6) months of actual
service. However, the City Clerk may approve an additional six (6) month
probationary period at his/her discretion or if so requested by the department
manager with sufficient justification. Provided, however, in the case of a
firefighter having to attend a fire academy in order to qualify for a position,
the probationary period shall commence from the date following graduation from
such academy. In the case of police officers having to meet the Arizona police
officers certification standards, the probationary period shall commence on the
date following receipt of such certification.
      3.   Transfer During Probationary Period: An employee who is transferred
to another position in the same or different class prior to the completion of
his/her probationary period shall complete that probationary period in the
latter position by adding thereto his/her service in the former position.
Verification of satisfactory performance in the new position by the department
manager will constitute verification of satisfactory service in the original
position.
      4.   Dismissal During Initial Probationary Period: At any time during the
probationary period, a department head may, with the approval of the City
Clerk, remove an employee whose performance does not meet the required
standards, provided that he or she shall report the removal and the reason
thereof to the employee concerned.
      5.   Layoff During Initial Probationary Period: At any time during the
probationary period when an employee is being considered for layoff because of
reduction in force, the appointing authority, with the consent of the employee,
may reduce in grade such employee in lieu of a layoff if he or she is otherwise
eligible and work is available in a lower grade. The probationary period shall
include the period of probation in the higher class. No reduction of this kind
shall be made if it will result in the separation of any other employee with
longer service. If a probationary employee is laid off and subsequently
recalled to work within a period of six (6) months, such employees shall be
credited with prior probationary time and shall complete the remainder of the
probationary period upon such recall.
      6.   Reduction In Grade During Probationary Period: When an employee who
is serving as a result of promotion, and who is a permanent employee in another
position in the classified service immediately prior to his/her promotional
appointment, is removed for reasons other than misconduct or delinquency, he or
she may be reinstated in his/her former or similar position with the same
anniversary date as prior to promotion. An employee who is reduced in grade for
disciplinary reasons shall not be eligible for promotion or a salary increase
other than cost of living approved by the City Council for a period of one year
from time of demotion.
      7.   Notification Of End Of Probationary Period: At least ten (10) days
prior to the expiration of an employee's probationary period the department
manager shall inform the City Clerk whether or not the employee is recommended
for continuance in his/her position. Upon receipt by the City Clerk of a
favorable report and with approval of the City Clerk, the appointment of the
employee shall be made permanent at the expiration of the probationary period
and the employee shall be so informed. No employee's probationary period shall
end until he or she has been so informed in writing and a copy placed in the
personnel file.
      8.   Appeal Rights Of Probationary Period: Unless the probationary
employee alleges that the dismissal was based upon race, religion, sex, or age
discrimination, and in such event only the issue of such discrimination shall
be heard, an employee who is reduced or dismissed during the probationary
period shall not have the right to appeal to the Personnel Board against such
actions.
      9.   Accrual Of Sick Leave And Annual Leave: Employees serving an initial
probationary period shall accrue both sick leave and annual leave, but shall be
permitted to use only sick leave during the probationary period. (Res. 28-1989,
11-13-1989)
1-19-8: TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND REINSTATEMENT:
   A.   Promotion: Insofar as consistent with the best interest of the City
service, all vacancies in the City service shall be filled by promotion from
within the City service after a promotional examination has been given and a
promotional list established.
Promotional examinations are given only to employees in the City service who
meet the additional job requirements.
If, in the opinion of the City Clerk, a vacancy in the position could be filled
better by an open competitive examination, then he or she shall arrange for an
open competitive examination and for the preparation and certification of an
open competitive employment list.
Upon promotion to another class, the employee shall be placed on a step in the
new pay range which is normally five percent (5%) higher than he or she was
receiving in his/her former class and pay range, disregarding any extra
compensation received within the former class, with a maximum salary increase
established at ten percent (10%). Any personnel action requiring a step/range
increase greater than ten percent (10%) shall require the approval of the City
Clerk. If the promoted employee is within ninety (90) days of completing the
required twelve (12) month rating period in the former class and based upon
recommendation of his supervisor and department manager, the employee may be
granted a merit increase prior to promotion.
Upon promotion, the employee shall be given a new classification date effective
at the time of appointment and begin serving probation in the new class.
   B.   Transfer: No person shall be transferred to a position for which he or
she does not possess the minimum qualifications. Upon notice to the employee
and the City Clerk, an employee may be transferred by the City Clerk at any
time from one position to another position in a comparable class. For transfer
purposes, a comparable class is one with the same maximum salary, includes the
performance of similar duties, and requires substantially the same basic
qualifications.
If the transfer includes a change from one department to another, both
department managers must consent to the transfer. The consent of the employee
shall not be required when his/her pay is not affected by the transfer, in a
transfer in which class and pay are not affected, the classification date is
not changed.
An employee transferred to a position in a different class which has the same
pay range as his/her former class shall maintain, unchanged, his/her rate of
pay and classification dates.
An employee transferred to a position in a different class in which the pay
range is lower than the range of his/her former class may generally be
transferred at his/her present rate of pay if it is within the pay range of the
class to which he or she is transferred. The employee's classification date
remains unchanged by the transfer.
If two (2) or more persons request a transfer to the same vacant position, the
City Clerk must require examination in the same manner as he or she does for
promotional vacancies.
   C.   Reinstatement: With the approval of the City Clerk, a permanent
employee who has resigned may, in writing, request placement on a reinstatement
list and may be reinstated within one year of the effective date of termination
to a vacant position in the class occupied at time of resignation or to a
comparable position, if qualified. Reinstatement lists shall be maintained for
each class of positions by the personnel officer.
Employees hired from a reinstatement list shall be classified as new employees.
They shall enter into and serve the required probationary period as prescribed.
Although classified as new employees, reinstated employees shall have twenty
percent (20%) of their unused sick leave accumulated at time of termination
restored, plus the vacation leave accrual rate in effect at time of
termination. The pay range and step for reinstated employees shall be
established by the City Clerk. No previous vacation accumulation shall be
restored.
Prior service may be used to satisfy promotional and benefit requirements,
except for health insurance. A reinstated employee who was absent from City
service for more than one month shall serve the required waiting period prior
to being enrolled in the City's health insurance plan. Reinstated employees
shall be permitted to participate in promotional examinations, if otherwise
qualified.
To determine seniority in the class for layoff purposes, a reinstated employee
shall be assigned a layoff date, based on one-half (1/2) of his/her immediate
prior service.
An employee who voluntarily accepts reinstatement to a position other than the
one vacated at time of termination surrenders all reinstatement rights and
shall have his/her name removed from the reinstatement list. An employee, who
resigned and at the time of resignation, occupied a position in a promotional
probationary status, is not eligible for reinstatement to that position or
class. The employee is eligible for reinstatement to the permanent position or
class occupied prior to promotion.
An employee who voluntarily resigns while serving an entrance probationary
period is not eligible for reinstatement. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-9: PERSONNEL FILES:
A personnel file will be maintained in the Personnel Office for each individual
employed by the City. The personnel file will represent a total record of an
individual's employment with the City.
   A.   Exclusions: Personnel records do not include records of an individual
relating to the conviction, arrest or investigation of conduct constituting a
violation of criminal laws of this State or another state or the United States,
confidential reports from previous employers or records maintained in
compliance with Arizona Revised Statutes (consent of, access to, and control of
personnel records).
   B.   Public Disclosure: Information in personnel files will be treated as
exempt from public disclosure as provided in the Arizona Public Records Law.
Information which cannot be treated as confidential under that law includes:
name, job title, salary, and dates of employment. Other information in the
files may be subject to public disclosure by court order.
   C.   Review Of File: Employees may review their files in the Personnel
Office during regular office hours. At the request of the employee, copies of
materials included in such files shall be furnished, the cost of which shall be
borne by the employee at the current actual cost to the City.
   D.   Access To Files: A supervisor will have access to the files of his/her
subordinates. The City Clerk will have access to personnel files for the
purpose of carrying out necessary personnel transactions, and shall be
responsible for the establishment of such files. The City Clerk shall designate
an individual responsible for the clerical tasks associated with maintaining
employee personnel files.
   E.   Maintenance Of Files: Personnel records of terminated employees will be
maintained on file for not less than sixty (60) days after the termination date
of the employee. After that time, microfilming of such files may be conducted.
At the request of the employee, copies of such records shall be furnished. The
cost of providing copies of this material shall be borne by the employee at the
actual cost to the City.
   F.   Entry Of Material To Files:
      1.   The City Clerk shall routinely place all official documents relating
to an individual's employment history with the City in his/her individual
personnel file. Such materials include: personnel action forms, performance
appraisals, letters of hire, training certificates, application form for
initial employment, and other materials deemed relevant to an individual's
employment history as determined by the City Clerk. No material that reflects
critically upon an employee shall be placed in an employee's personnel record
without the employee's knowledge.
      2.   Department managers may submit material to be included in an
employee's personnel file to the City Clerk for review. The City Clerk must
approve all material submitted for inclusion in an individual's personnel file.
      3.   An employee may submit a written rebuttal to any material entered
into his/her file which he or she feels reflects poorly on his/her employment
history with the City. Such rebuttal shall be attached to the material he or
she is objecting to and shall become a permanent part of the file so long as
such material remains in the file. The department manager shall be notified of
any rebuttal submitted.
   G.   Removal Of Materials: Normally, once material has been entered into an
employee's personnel file it shall remain with the contents of the file
permanently. However, an employee or former employee may request through
channels of the City Clerk that letters of caution, consultations, warning,
admonishment, or reprimand be removed from the file after three (3) years, if
no recurrence or similar infraction occurs.
Material may be removed at any time from an employee's personnel file provided
there is agreement between the department manager who was responsible for
placing the material in the file and the employee affected by the placement of
the material in the file, and provided the City Clerk has approved the action.
   H.   Termination: When an employee's employment with the City has
terminated, the file will be destroyed after three (3) years. Name, position
and type of termination information will be retained. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-
1989)
1-19-10: STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING:
   A.   General Policy: The policy of the City shall be to encourage and
promote training opportunities for all City employees to the end that the
services they render to the City may be more effective. The City recognizes the
training function to be essential to the development of technical,
administrative, and professional skills of employees.
   B.   Objectives: The primary objective of the City's staff development and
training program shall be to improve the ability of City staff to provide
services to our constituents. To this end, the staff development and training
program will be designed to meet City and department needs, personnel needs,
and to prepare employees for positions of greater responsibility.
   C.   Roles And Responsibilities:
      1.   City Council: The City Council shall have the responsibility to
approve the budget submitted to fund the staff development and training
program.
      2.   City Clerk: The City Clerk shall have the responsibility for
approving all contracts with consultants/instructors providing special agency
training sessions and the approval of the overall training program. All
educational and training opportunities are subject to budget limitations. The
City Clerk shall be responsible for managing the total training fund within
budget limitations.
      3.   Department Manager: The department manager shall have the
responsibility of approving or denying all training or educational requests
submitted by the employees under his/her supervision. The department manager
shall be responsible for determining job relevancy of training requests and for
budget control of training funds appropriated for the sections. When reviewing
training requests, the department manager shall take into consideration:
         a.   Availability of funds.
         b.   Correlation of the training to the employee's job
responsibilities as outlined in the position classification specification and
the employee's work plan.
         c.   The specific performance deficiency or developmental needs which
the training is designed to improve, as identified on the employee's report of
performance appraisals.
      4.   Employee: Employees are responsible for assisting the supervisor in
the identification of training which they feel will improve their job
performance.
   D.   Definition Of Staff Development And Training: Training includes all
activities designed to orient, update and develop job related knowledge and
skills of City staff for present and potential positions in the City structure.
It also includes all training activities designed to help implement City
programs or introduce and maintain City administrative systems. Training may be
provided by technical consultants, by participation in workshops or courses
sponsored through educational institutions, or by participation in in-service
training sessions conducted by City staff.
      1.   Development Training: Training designed to correct performance
deficiencies of employees, or to develop the potential of an employee to the
extent that the development is directly related to the mission of the City.
Developmental training usually attempts to mesh the career goals of the
individual with the goals of the organization.
      2.   Educational Training: In the context of this policy, education of
staff typically refers to college credit courses involving tuition, books, and
mileage reimbursement when educational training focuses largely on the goals of
the individual with a direct benefit to the organization. It will normally not
be considered a training priority.
      3.   Job Related Training: This training refers primarily to skills
development which an employee uses in his/her assigned position. These learning
experiences may focus on generic skills which are common to many different
positions such as time management, report writing, etc., or specific skills
such as accounting, wastewater treatment certification, etc.
      4.   On The Job Training: Training an employee to perform the duties,
responsibilities and tasks unique to the particular position to which the
employee is assigned. It would also include cross training among employees in
other divisions.
      5.   Orientation: While training focuses largely on skills development,
orientation typically is the dissemination of information, i.e., informing
staff of changes in program operation, reviewing agency policy and procedure,
informing new employees of benefits, etc.
      6.   In-Service Training: Training of employees by those employees
returning from training programs on general or specific subjects, tasks, etc.
   E.   Identification Of Training Needs: Training activities will be scheduled
in response to needs identified by employees and/or their supervisors. The
primary sources for identifying training needs shall be the reports of
performance appraisals, the results of needs assessments, or the result of
needs identified by the administrative staff.
   F.   Cost Of Training: Costs for training include registration fees for
workshops or conferences and the fees charged for contracting consultants and/
or instructors providing the training. These costs will be supported by the
City, provided the training has been approved by the City Clerk. Lodging, meals
and travel will normally be charged to the respective budgeted accounts.
      1.   Tuition And Books Reimbursement: The City will provide for tuition
and books reimbursement for approved courses in which an employee participates.
Employees must receive approval for reimbursement prior to enrolling in any
course. Reimbursement will normally not be paid to the employee until after the
employee has provided evidence of satisfactory completion of the approved
course.
      2.   Travel Expense: Whenever possible, a City employee will use a City
vehicle when attending City approved training courses. An employee will not be
reimbursed for mileage expenses when a personal vehicle is used and a City
vehicle has been authorized and is available. Usage of a vehicle shall be
directly to and from training. Violations shall be punishable by suspension or
dismissal.
   G.   Budgeting For Training: The City Clerk will recommend budget amounts to
support the City staff development and training program when presenting the
City's overall operating budget. Training funds will be budgeted in each of the
individual major department budgets.
   H.   Training Requirements For Employees: Each new employee of the City
shall minimally be scheduled to participate in a new employee orientation.
   I.   Eligibility For Training: All staff of the City are eligible to
participate in the staff development and training program.
   J.   Priorities: All training opportunities are subject to budget
limitations. Therefore, the City has established three (3) categories of
training as priorities when approving training requests. They are:
      1.   Orientation;
      2.   Job related training;
      3.   Developmental training. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-11: EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE:
The principal objective of any disciplinary action shall be to improve the
performance, efficiency, and morale of the City service. Any action which
reflects discredit on the service is a direct hindrance to the effective
performance of the City functions. Improper employee conduct shall be
considered good cause for disciplinary action.
   A.   Disciplinary Action: The policy of the City is that employee discipline
is corrective, positive and lawful.
      1.   Corrective: The supervisor shall come to an understanding about the
causes and/or reasons for an employee's deficiencies, correcting those
deficiencies and attempting to restore the employee to a productive and
positive employment status.
      2.   Progressive: Discipline will normally begin with an oral reprimand
or warning and, when circumstances of each separate incident warrant, proceed
to a written reprimand, suspension from work without pay or demotion in status,
and finally to discharge from employment with the City. A severe incident of
misconduct may require a severe disciplinary measure such as discharge and may
not be preceded by lesser forms of disciplinary action.
      3.   Lawful: Discipline and the procedure by which it is administered do
not violate the employee's civil rights. Minimally, when disciplinary action
involves suspension without pay, demotion or discharge of a career status
employee, the employee shall:
         a.   Be notified of the charges against him/her in writing;
         b.   Be informed of the sanction being considered by the employer in
writing, i.e., discharge and when it will take effect; and
         c.   Be given an informal opportunity to refute the charges either
orally or in writing before the City Clerk or department head having the
authority to make the final decision.
      4.   Suspension: The department head, with the approval of the City
Clerk, may suspend an employee from his position at any time for a disciplinary
purpose. Suspension without pay shall not exceed thirty (30) working days at
anyone time.
      5.   Dismissal: Any employee in the classified service, who has completed
the probation to City, may be discharged for cause at any time by the
department head upon the approval of the City Clerk. The employee shall be
entitled to a hearing as provided for in the personnel plan if he or she
requests one within the applicable time period.
   B.   Supervisor's Responsibilities: Supervisors are responsible for
administering discipline within the general guidelines of this policy.
Each supervisor with the City has the responsibilities under the disciplinary
process of: identifying employment deficiencies in employees; seeking with the
employee ways to solve and/or correct those deficiencies; and recommending
appropriate levels of discipline to the department head, depending upon the
severity and frequency of the event or events warranting disciplinary action.
The immediate supervisor shall have the power to reprimand and admonish
employees.
   C.   Department Head's Responsibilities: The department head may reprimand
and admonish employees, order suspension for periods up to thirty (30) working
days, demote employees within a pay grade or from one pay grade to another, or
dismiss any employee on grounds provided in subsection A of this section.
   D.   City Clerk's Responsibilities: The City Clerk shall review all matters
pertaining to suspension, dismissal or demotion and either approve or
disapprove.
   E.   City Clerk's Decision: The decision of the City Clerk is final, subject
to the right of appeal as set forth below. The actions herein do not preclude
the employee's right to grievance or appeal procedures as set forth herein.
   F.   Disciplinary Review: In the event that an employee wishes to appeal any
disciplinary action contained herein, the procedures described in subsection G
of this section shall be followed.
      1.   Definitions:
   AGGRIEVED PARTY: The person or persons who were directly affected by the
alleged violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of the personnel
policies and who suffered personal loss or injury.
   DAYS: Shall be workdays for the purpose of this plan.
   DISCIPLINARY REVIEW APPEAL: Any claim by an employee that such claimant's
rights, benefits, privileges or interest in property in such matters as
suspension, demotion or dismissal or denial of pay increase provided for in the
personnel policies and procedures have been violated or that the personnel
policies and procedures have been misapplied or misinterpreted to such claimant
in a particular case.
   IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR: The person who has direct administrative or
supervisory responsibility over the aggrieved.
   G.   General Information:
      1.   Disciplinary Review Board: The board shall be composed of members of
the City Council.
      2.   Initiation Of Disciplinary Appeal: Each disciplinary review must be
initiated within five (5) working days of the occurrence of the cause.
      3.   Confidentiality: All information relating to the initiation of a
disciplinary review shall be considered confidential information.
      4.   Procedure For Disciplinary Review Appeal: The purpose of the
disciplinary review appeal procedure for suspension, dismissal and demotion is
to settle equitably those disputes constituting an appeal at the lowest
possible administrative level. A thorough discussion of the claim shall be
conducted by the aggrieved party and his/her department head to seek grounds
for the resolution of the problem.
         a.   Formal Conference: The aggrieved party shall, within five (5)
working days of disciplinary action, prepare a written statement of the facts
constituting the complaint and setting forth:
            (1)   The section of the policy allegedly violated;
            (2)   The nature and extent of the injury or loss they suffered;
            (3)   The results of previous discussions of the appeal;
            (4)   His/her dissatisfaction with the decision rendered at the
informal conference; and
            (5)   The remedy sought.
This information shall be sent to the department head who shall, within five
(5) days of receipt of the complaint, meet with the aggrieved party and, if
necessary, the supervisor to attempt to resolve the matter. Within five (5)
days of the formal conference, the department head shall prepare a written
statement of the reason for his/her decision.
         b.   Appeal To Disciplinary Review Board: Within five (5) days of
receipt of the decision or within ten (10) days after the formal conference
held in step one, subsection G4a of this section, whichever is later, the
aggrieved party may file an appeal in writing to the disciplinary review board
through the City Clerk setting forth the grounds upon which the appeal is based
and the reasons why the aggrieved party considered the decision rendered in
said step one above to be unacceptable. Copies of the decision and statement of
reasons from said step one above shall be filed with the appeal to the
Disciplinary Review Board.
            (1)   The City Clerk will schedule a meeting within thirty (30)
days and shall submit an agenda item to the disciplinary review board.
            (2)   The issues to be reviewed by the Disciplinary Review Board
shall be:
               (A)   Whether or not the department head's decision was made
within the guidelines of the approved personnel policies adopted by the City
Council; and
               (B)   Whether the disciplinary action was appropriate to the
violation.
            (3)   The Disciplinary Review Board shall prepare its recommended
decision and communicate in writing such recommendation along with supporting
reasons therefor to the aggrieved party and the City Clerk as soon as possible
or no longer than ten (10) days after terminating the hearing. All official
written material regarding the grievance shall be attached.
         c.   Review By The City Clerk: The City Clerk shall act on said
recommendations from the Disciplinary Review Board not less than ten (10) days
following such receipt. The decision with reasons shall be written and shall be
furnished to the parties involved. Said decision may sustain, modify or reverse
said recommendation from the Disciplinary Review Board. Said decision shall be
final, without further appeal.
   H.   Exempt Service Employees: Exempt service employees defined herein shall
direct any disciplinary review appeal to the appropriate authority, i.e., City
Council.
   I.   Reasons For Dismissal: The tenure of every employee in the City service
shall be contingent upon acceptable conduct and satisfactory performance of
duties. Failure to meet such standards of conduct and work performance for any
of the following listed reasons (such reasons not to be considered all
inclusive) are sufficient grounds for dismissal:
      1.   If the employee is incompetent or inefficient in the performance of
his/her duties.
      2.   If the employee has been abusive in his/her attitude, language or
has been abusive in his/her conduct resulting in physical harm or injury to
fellow employees, wards of the City, or the public.
      3.   If the employee has some permanent or chronic physical or mental
aliment or defect which incapacitates him/her for the proper performance of
his/her duties.
      4.   If the employee has violated any lawful or official regulation or
order or failed to obey any lawful and reasonable direction given him/her by
his/her superior officer or supervisor.
      5.   If the employee has been found under the influence of alcohol or
nonprescribed drugs while on duty.
      6.   That the employee had taken for personal use a fee, gift, or other
valuable thing in the course of his/her work or in connection with it, when
such fee, gift or other valuable thing is given him/her by any person in the
hope or expectation of receiving a favor or better treatment than that accorded
other persons.
      7.   The employee has used, threatened to use, or attempted to use
political influence for himself/herself or any other employees in securing
employment benefits or advantages.
      8.   That the employee has failed to pay or make reasonable provision for
future payment of just debts when undue annoyance is caused to his/her
supervisor or City office personnel by collection methods or bad reputation has
resulted because of failure to pay just debts. Two (2) garnishments served on
the City after judgment shall be prima facie evidence of an employee's failure
to pay or make reasonable provision for future payment of just debts.
      9.   The employee has been convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
      10.   That the employee has made false statements, written or oral,
attempting to conceal any past or present criminal activity.
      11.   That the employee, through negligence or wilful conduct, has caused
damage to public property or waste of public supplies.
      12.   That the employee has been absent without leave, or has failed to
report after a leave of absence has expired, or after such leave or absence has
been disapproved or revoked and canceled by the City Clerk.
      13.   The employee has engaged in outside business activities on City
time or has used City property for his/her personal use.
      14.   That the employee has directly or indirectly received or paid any
assessment, subscription or contribution for the purpose of electing any
candidate to a Municipal public office.
      15.   That the employee has engaged in improper political activities.
      16.   It has been found that the employee has malingered and abused sick
leave privileges.
      17.   That the employee has been guilty of any other conduct of equal
gravity to the reasons enumerated in these rules.
      18.   That the employee deliberately gave incorrect information on his/
her employment application.
   J.   Disciplinary Probation: An employee may be placed on disciplinary
probation and, during that time, shall accrue vacation and sick leave time.
However, the employee shall not accrue earned time for salary review or
promotion while on such probation nor shall he or she be allowed to compete in
promotional examinations while on disciplinary probation. Disciplinary
probation shall be not less than four (4) months nor more than six (6) months.
Persons placed on disciplinary probation may be terminated for failure to meet
job requirements. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-12: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   To assure employees that their complaints, grievances and
recommendations will be considered fairly, rapidly and without reprisal,
coercion or discrimination.
      2.   To determine what is right, rather than who is right, i.e.,
providing for the objective consideration of employee problems.
      3.   To establish uniform policies and procedures in handling all
informal employee complaints and formal employee grievances.
      4.   To outline the respective rights and obligations of all employees in
hearing and resolving complaints and grievances on matters for which an appeal
or hearing is not provided by other regulations.
      5.   To provide a systematic means of obtaining further consideration of
problems after every reasonable effort has failed to resolve them through
discussion.
      6.   To provide that all complaints and grievances shall be settled as
near as possible to the point of origin.
   B.   Policy: Use of this procedure shall not reflect unfavorably on the
employee, the supervisor(s), the department manager(s), or the general
management of the City. Retaliatory or discriminatory action against an
employee for using this procedure or discrimination in the application of a
rule or policy shall be a violation of the City policy.
   C.   Principles:
      1.   An aggrieved employee may be represented by himself/herself or an
attorney at any level of review.
      2.   An employee may use a reasonable amount of work time, as determined
by the appropriate management supervisor, if conferring about and presenting a
grievance.
      3.   Any monetary grievance shall be limited to the date the grievance
was originally filed in writing or otherwise as provided in step two,
subsection F of this section, except in cases where it was impossible for the
employee to have had prior knowledge of an accounting error.
      4.   The time limits specified in this rule may be extended by mutual
agreement of the aggrieved employee and the reviewer concerned.
      5.   Should a decision not be rendered within a simulative time limit,
the aggrieved employee may immediately appeal to the next step.
      6.   The grievance may be considered settled if the decision of any stop
is not appealed within the specified time limit.
   D.   Definition Of Complaint And Grievance: A "grievance" is a circumstance
thought by the employee to be unjust and grounds for "complaint" an unresolved
complaint or dispute regarding the application or interpretation of these rules
or other applicable policies, procedures or regulations governing personnel
practices or working conditions.
If an employee feels that he or she has a complaint, he or she must discuss it
with his/her immediate supervisor as soon as possible after the incident. If
the complaint is not resolved with one's immediate supervisor, the employee
shall go to the next level of supervision and may proceed through the
department manager without formally filing a grievance. Such informal
discussion shall be considered as a complaint and not a grievance, and every
effort should be made to resolve the matter in this manner.
However, if at any level of supervision above the first one the employee
decides to formalize his/her complaint in writing, he or she shall be
considered as having a grievance. The employee may use the grievance procedure
by filing the grievance with his or her immediate supervisor.
   E.   Time Limit For Presenting Grievances: No grievance shall be considered
if a period of fifteen (15) calendar days or more has elapsed from the date of
the incident which gave rise to the grievance.
   F.   Procedure For Presentation Of Complaint Or Grievance: All complaints
must be submitted to the employee's immediate supervisor.
The following procedures shall be followed when an employee desires to express
dissatisfaction with some aspect of his/her employment:
      1.   An employee who has a problem shall first present his/her complaint
orally to his/her immediate supervisor so that it can be settled through
discussion. Every effort shall be made to adjust all complaints on an informal
basis between the employee and his/her immediate supervisor. Both the
complainant and his/her representative shall be allowed a reasonable time off
to present the complaint. The supervisor shall notify his/her department
manager when a complaint is presented so that his advice and counsel may be
obtained and the complaint resolved. The complainant's supervisor is encouraged
to answer the employee as quickly as possible and must reply no later than two
(2) working days after submission of the complaint.
      2.   If, after discussion with his/her first two (2) levels of
supervision, the employee does not believe that the problem has been
satisfactorily resolved on the informal oral basis, he or she may file a formal
written grievance with his/her immediate supervisor.
      3.   The immediate supervisor must, within three (3) working days of
receipt of the grievance, render a written, dated decision to the employee. The
response shall include sufficient details and information so as to clearly
establish the basis for his/her decision. A copy of the supervisor's reply and
the employee's written grievance will be sent to the department manager.
      4.   After receiving the written response from the immediate supervisor,
if the employee feels that the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved,
he or she may appeal in writing to the department manager. The appeal must be
filed within three (3) working days of the date of receipt of the written
response from the supervisor.
      5.   The department manager must, within five (5) working days of receipt
of the grievance, render a written, dated decision to the employee. The
response shall include sufficient details and information so as to clearly
indicate the basis for his/her decision. Copies of the reply and the employee's
written appeal shall be sent to the City Clerk and the appropriate supervisor.
      6.   After receiving the written response from the department manager, if
the employee feels that the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved, he
or she may appeal in writing to the City Clerk. The appeal must be filed within
three (3) working days of the date of the receipt of the written response of
the department manager. The filing of the grievance with the City Clerk will be
accomplished by signing the appropriate space on the grievance form and
including the following information:
         a.   Name and classification of the aggrieved employee;
         b.   Grievance filing date;
         c.   Nature and date of the grievance;
         d.   Corrective action requested and reasons therefor;
         e.   Summary of efforts made to resolve the grievance informally; and
         f.   Additional information pertinent to the grievance.
      7.   Within seven (7) calendar days from the receipt of the written
appeal, the City Clerk shall do one of the following:
         a.   Render a dated decision without calling a hearing;
         b.   Summarily call for review by the Advisory Hearing Committee: or
         c.   Determine after meeting with the employee that the best interests
of the City and the best interests of the employee would be served by convening
an advisory hearing.
      8.   The Advisory Hearing Committee shall be constituted as follows:
         a.   Three (3) members shall be selected by the City Clerk;
         b.   Three (3) members shall be selected by the complainant; and
         c.   A Chairperson selected by the City Clerk. The Chairperson will
not vote, except in the case of a tie vote. All members shall be pertinent City
employees and none shall have been directly involved in the grievance.
      9.   The Advisory Hearing Committee shall conduct an informal hearing
without courtroom procedures or formal rules of evidence. Both sides shall be
granted an opportunity to present their position. The Advisory Hearing
Committee shall attempt to mediate the grievance and shall vote upon the issues
by secret ballot. A majority vote shall determine the advisory decision of the
committee. The recommendation of the committee shall be immediately sent to the
City Clerk for his review and final decision.
      10.   The City Clerk's letter of decision rendered within twelve (12)
calendar days of receiving the committee report and it shall indicate the basis
for the action taken and the advisory hearing committee's recommendation. The
City Clerk's decision shall also be forwarded to the supervisor of the
aggrieved employee and his/her department manager. For informational purposes,
the City Clerk will send a copy to the City Council.
   G.   Employee Recommendations: Matters of City Council policy that are not
within the authority of the administrative staff and the City Clerk shall be
submitted in writing on "recommendation" forms. Recommendations shall be
forwarded to the City Clerk for transmittal to the City Council. Such forms
shall be provided by the City Clerk's office. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-13: SAFETY PROGRAM:
   A.   Purpose: The safety and health of each employee is extremely important
to both the welfare and happiness of the individual employee and to the
efficiency of the services provided for the safety and welfare of all the
people of Tombstone. In order to achieve the highest degree of safety, the
responsibility, organization and operational procedures for a safety program
shall be put into effect.
   B.   Wearing Of Safety Equipment: In certain areas, the nature of the work
requires the wearing and use of specialized protective clothing and equipment,
such as hardhats, safety shoes, sturdy work shoes, rubber boots, gloves,
protective eye goggles, earplugs, respirators, etc. Some of the items will be
provided by the City. Others will be the responsibility of the individual
employee. In those areas where specialized protective clothing and equipment is
required, its use and wear and, if noncity furnished, procurement shall be
considered a condition of employment. Failure to procure equipment may result
in disciplinary action, including termination. Inability to wear required
safety equipment for whatever reason, including medical, may for the job
applicant, be grounds for disqualification of employment and, for City
employees, grounds for transfer, reclassification, demotion or termination.
(Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-14: PERFORMANCE RATINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the performance rating system is to properly
evaluate the performance of the classified employees of the City in the
accomplishment of their assigned duties and responsibilities. The factors used
in rating performances should be as objective as possible. The performance
rating system shall be used as a means of improving the performance level of
all employees, particularly of those who measure below satisfactory.
In addition, the sick leave record will be examined at rating time so that
medical help can be scheduled where needed.
   B.   Applicability: Performance rating reports on probationary employees
shall be made two (2) weeks prior to completion of probation and thereafter at
least once annually for all permanent employees in the classified service.
   C.   Administration: The City Clerk shall administer the performance rating
system subject to the direction of the City Council. A detailed manual of
instructions shall be prepared by the personnel officer.
   D.   Rating Authority: The rating authority shall be that person who
directly supervises the work of the employee rated.
   E.   Reviewing Authority: The reviewing authority shall be the department
manager but the function of the review may be delegated to any division head or
other supervisor by direction. Each employee rated shall have an opportunity to
review his/her rating with his/her supervisor and shall sign the rating to
indicate acknowledgment.
The City Clerk is charged with the responsibility of investigating the accuracy
of ratings and assisting employee rating authorities and reviewing authorities
in the administration of the performance rating system.
Completed copies of all rating forms shall be submitted to the employee and the
City Clerk who shall file each form in the employee's personnel file.
   F.   Special Rating Periods: Performance rating periods may be requested by
the City Clerk when employees transfer, are promoted, resign, or any other
change of status, or by any supervisor of a City employee at any time.
   G.   Rating Appeal: If an employee's rating is unsatisfactory and his/her
merit increase is denied on the basis of the rating, the employee may appeal
the rating as set forth if he or she feels that the rating was unjust. (Res.
28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-15: SEPARATIONS:
   A.   Tenure: The tenure of every employee shall be conditioned on good
behavior and satisfactory performance of duty. Any employee may be temporarily
separated by layoff or suspension or permanently separated by resignation or
dismissal.
   B.   Authority: The City Clerk, with the concurrence of the City Council,
may separate any employee without prejudice whenever such action is made
necessary by reason of shortage or curtailment of work, shortage or lack of
funds, the abolishment of a position, or changes in organization. Whenever a
situation arises under this division, the city clerk may use the following
steps as guidance:
      1.   Place on the agenda an item with wording similar to the following:
         Discussion and action to approve the authorization of the city clerk
to change the status of employees from full time to part time or to layoff
employee made necessary by reason of ______________ [shortage or curtailment of
work, shortage or lack of funds, the abolishment of a position, or changes in
organization] at or within ______________ [the boothill gift shop, city hall,
public works, etc.].
      2.   Once the city council has approved the action, the city clerk should
provide the employee with written notice at least ten (10) working days prior
to the change in employee status or layoff.
      3.   No permanent employee should be separated from any department while
there are provisional, probationary, part time or temporary employees serving
in the same class of positions in that department. Whenever possible, employees
who are to be laid off in one department shall be integrated into another
department by transfer. When layoffs are required, they shall be in the inverse
order of the relative length and quality of service of the employee, i.e., the
employee with the longest service time or best quality performance shall be the
last to be laid off. Any employee affected by layoff through no fault of his/
her own shall be eligible for reemployment.
   C.   Resignation: An employee who desires to resign his/her position with
the City and be in good standing with the City shall provide a written
resignation to his/her department manager or the City Clerk stating the
effective date and reason for such action. Notification shall be provided at
least two (2) weeks prior to the effective date unless otherwise waived by the
City Clerk. Employees who resign shall be entitled to compensation for their
earned and unused vacation leave as provided. Employees who resign in good
standing shall also be entitled to reemployment as provided.
   D.   Retirement:
      1.   Voluntary Retirement Policy: A full time regular employee in the
City shall be eligible for retirement benefits in accordance with the Arizona
State retirement system or the Arizona public safety personnel retirement
system.
      2.   Mandatory Retirement Policy: A full time regular employee in the
City shall be eligible for benefits from the Arizona State retirement system
and shall be retired after reaching the age of retirement as established by
State law. The retirement date shall be the first day of the calendar month
immediately following the date the employee reaches the age of retirement as
established by State law, with the exceptions that the City Council shall
consider an application made by the City Clerk requesting that the retirement
of an employee be delayed. The application for delay of retirement shall be
accompanied by a statement of the City physician certifying as to the
employee's physical fitness to perform the duties of the position held. Delay
of retirement shall only be granted for one year duration per application.
      3.   Status Of Fringe Benefits: In the event an employee is approved for
continuance of employment beyond maximum age, the City agrees to pay
contributions to the health, dental and other programs in effect at that time.
      4.   Status Of Contribution To The Retirement System: When an employee
continues employment beyond maximum age, neither the employee nor the City
shall be obligated to continue contributions.
      5.   Employment Status: Employees who continue employment beyond the
maximum age shall maintain career status with the City and shall enjoy all
benefits provided to career employees.
      6.   Police And Fire: Retirement and retirement benefits of members of
the Police and Fire Departments shall be governed by the Arizona public safety
personnel retirement system.
      7.   Insurance Policies: Insurance policies may, at the individual
employees' discretion, be converted to individual policies provided the City's
insurance carrier and policy allow for such conversion.
   E.   Return Of City Property: Any employee leaving the City service, whether
through resignation, layoff, or dismissal, is responsible for returning any
City property which he or she may have in his/her possession. Upon termination,
such property as personnel manuals, identification cards, badges, keys, etc.,
must be returned to the department manager or the City Clerk prior to receiving
final pay check. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989; amd. Ord. 2019-03, 8-13-2019)
1-19-16: PROBATIONARY PERIOD:
   A.   Purpose: The probationary period shall be an integral part of the
selection and screening process. It shall be used by supervisors as an
opportunity to observe the employee's work, to train and aid the employee in
adjustment to his/her position, and to reject any employee whose work
performance falls to meet required standards.
   B.   Duration: All entrance appointments and all promotional appointments
shall be tentative and subject to a probationary period of six (6) full months
of actual service (unless otherwise provided) commencing on the employee's
anniversary date. Such probationary period may be less if approved by City
Clerk. Any interruption of service during the probationary period shall not be
counted as part of such period.
Probation period for a police officer shall begin upon successful completion of
police academy training.
A seasonal or temporary employee appointed on probation may have part or all of
his/her time spent as seasonal or temporary employee count as part of his/her
probationary period, not to exceed six (6) full months, upon the recommendation
of the department head and approval of the City Clerk.
   C.   Action At End Of Probationary Period: Prior to completion of an
employee's probationary period, his/her supervisor must, through the
performance appraisal process, recommend one of the following actions:
      1.   Career Appointment: Recommend that the employee be appointed to
career status. Such recommendation shall be based upon employee demonstrating
commendable, above average work performance.
      2.   Termination Of Employment Or Reassignment: Recommend that the
employee's services be terminated, or in the case of promoted employees,
returned to his/her previous classification.
      3.   Extension Of Probationary Period: Recommend that the probationary
period be extended (as provided in subsection D of this section).
   D.   Extension Of Probationary Period: A department head may, with the
concurrence of the City Clerk, extend an employee's probationary period for a
specified time not to exceed an additional six (6) months. The employee shall
be notified of the reason for the extension through the performance appraisal
process, and a further report and decision shall be required at the end of the
additional period.
   E.   Fringe Benefit Status During Probationary Period: This section applies
only to new employees serving a period of probation to the City. It does not
apply to employees who are serving a period of probation to a position as a
result of promotion.
      1.   Leave: No leave, other than authorized leave without pay, health
leave, or military leave shall be taken by an employee during his/her
probationary period.
      2.   Accrual Of Leave: Health leave and vacation leave benefits based
upon or earned in connection with time worked shall accumulate during an
employee's probationary period. The employee shall be allowed use of health
leave during his/her probationary period. Use of vacation leave shall not be
allowed until the employee is appointed to career status.
      3.   Health Insurance And Dental Insurance: Probationary full time
employees shall enroll in the health plan. Such premiums shall be borne by the
City or the employee respectively as specified.
      4.   Retirement Program: The City provides a retirement plan for City
employees. Participation in the plan is mandatory, and is effective on day one
of employment, with the exception of seasonal, temporary and other exempt
service positions. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-17: ATTENDANCE, HOLIDAYS, VACATIONS AND OTHER LEAVES:
City offices shall be open for transaction of business from eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, except on
holidays. Supervisory staff are responsible for ensuring that all programs are
adequately staffed during that time and that overall needs of departments are
met. This policy provides supervisory staff the authority to establish flexible
work schedules for employees.
   A.   Hours Of Work: The City Clerk shall establish a schedule of regular
working hours for each department. The schedule shall normally provide for a
workweek of forty (40) hours. Employees working twenty one (21) hours or more
would be designated as full time service; employees working less than twenty
one (21) hours would be designated as part time employees in classified
service.
The standard is for personnel to be at work stations from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday.
      1.   Flexible Work Schedules: These may be established for City personnel
as authorized by the department head. Some departments or individuals will have
workdays and hours which vary from the standard according to operating
schedules which provide for better service to the public.
      2.   Review Of Flexible Work Schedules: In reviewing flexible work
schedules, critical consideration shall be given to:
         a.   Ability to supervise staff;
         b.   Ability to coordinate office operations;
         c.   The extent to which all programs are adequately staffed and able
to meet public demands.
      3.   Reporting Time: Each employee shall have a fixed time for reporting
to work and leaving from work.
      4.   Charge To Leave Accounts: Health leave, vacation and other leave
accounts shall be charged by the hour. Any employee working less than forty
(40) hours per week shall have all fringe benefits prorated (computed as a
percentage of a 40 hour workweek).
   B.   Attendance: Employees are expected to be at the appropriate work site
during their scheduled work hours. Employees who are unable to report to work
are to notify their immediate supervisor within thirty (30) minutes of their
scheduled starting time the day of absence regarding the reason for the absence
and the expected length of the absence.
      1.   Absence Due To Adverse Weather Conditions: On occasion, adverse
weather conditions, as determined by the City Clerk, severely impair the
ability of some staff members to get to work on time, or to get to work at all.
In such instances, employees shall be compensated as follows:
         a.   Employees reporting to the work site within one hour of their
usual starting time will be compensated for a full days' work (8 hours).
Employees reporting later than one hour will be compensated for actual hours
worked, unless otherwise approved by the City Clerk.
         b.   Employees who are unable to report to the work site will charge
time either to their vacation account or compensatory time account, excluding
health leave account.
         c.   Employees who have no accrued leave accounts to charge shall
record on their time sheets appropriate hours of unpaid leave.
         d.   Request for leave forms are to be completed and submitted to the
supervisor by all employees submitting hours of unpaid leave.
      2.   Absence Without Leave: No employee may absent himself/herself from
duty without permission of his/her supervisor. An employee absent for three (3)
consecutive or accumulative days without authorization, except for an
unavoidable situation, set by the City Clerk, shall be subject to disciplinary
action including suspension or dismissal.
   C.   Holidays: The following shall be considered holidays for employees of
the City:
      New Years' Day
      President's Day
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day
      Veteran's Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      Friday after Thanksgiving Day
      Christmas Day
      1.   Holidays Failing On Saturday Or Sunday: Employees working an
irregular workweek shall receive the same number of holidays as employees
working a regular workweek. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the City will
observe it on Friday. If it falls on Sunday, the City will observe it on
Monday.
      2.   Holiday Compensation: Employees shall receive no more than eight (8)
hours holiday pay for those holidays observed by the City. If an employee works
on a holiday, the employee shall be paid an additional hour for each hour
worked. An employee who works on a holiday will be compensated for a holiday if
such employee is on the payroll the workday before and the workday after the
holiday. Part time career status employees will receive prorated compensation
for holidays on the same basis as their part time work. Temporary and seasonal
employees are not eligible for holiday compensation.
      3.   Yuletide Bonus: All City services are provided on the days before
both Christmas and New Year's Day. The City Council may elect each year to
grant employees four (4) hours off, either the day before Christmas or the day
before New Year's Day. If such bonus holiday hours are granted, employees who
are unable to arrange suitable schedules due to work requirements may be
allowed to accrue four (4) hours of paid time or compensation.
      4.   Election Days: Primary and general election days will not be
considered as holidays but employees will be given ample time during the time
the polls are open during work hours in which to vote in accordance with State
law.
   D.   Vacation Leave With Pay: Vacation leave shall be accrued when a full
time employee is in a pay status and shall be credited on a monthly basis.
Each regular full time employee shall accrue vacation leave at the following
rates for continuous service performed in pay status:
      1.   Less Than Five Years: For employees with less than five (5) years'
continuous service, eighty-three hundredths (0.83) working days per month, or a
maximum of ten (10) working days per twelve (12) continuous months' employment.
      2.   Five But Less Than Ten Years: For employees completing five (5) but
less than ten (10) years' continuous service, one and one-fourth (1.25) working
days per month or a maximum of fifteen (15) working days per twelve (12)
continuous months' employment.
      3.   Ten Or More Years: For employees completing ten (10) years'
continuous service, one and two-thirds (1.66) working days per month or a
maximum of twenty (20) working days per twelve (12) continuous months'
employment.
Leaves of absence compensated by the Arizona Industrial Commission not in
excess of one year shall be considered as continuous paid service.
Eligibility to use vacation credits shall begin only after completion of six
(6) months of employment and subject to approval of the respective department
head.
Termination of employment before the completion of six (6) months' service
shall void vacation credits.
   E.   Maximum Accrual Of Vacation Leave Credits: Maximum accrual of vacation
leave for all eligible employees shall be as follows: For all employees, one
years' annual accrual of credited time on December 31 of each year. In the
event an employee fails to use his/her vacation leave balance as provided
herein, vacation accrual beyond the limits established in this section shall be
prohibited and no other compensation or recognition of such prohibited accrual
shall be made. The City Clerk may extend accrual limits when vacation leave is
not permitted, for the convenience of the City. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
   F.   Scheduling Of Vacation: Employee's plans for vacation leave shall be
reviewed with and approved by the department head in advance so as to ensure
continuity of City services. Plans for vacation leave of department heads shall
be approved by the City Clerk.
Employee vacation plans must be submitted in writing as follows:
      1.   Vacation for five (5) or more working days requires thirty (30)
calendar days' advance approval.
      2.   Vacation for five (5) working days within a single two (2) week pay
period requires twenty (20) calendar days' advance approval.
      3.   Vacation for less than five (5) working days within a one week
period requires ten (10) calendar days' advance approval.
      4.   Any other form of request or special circumstance requires City
Clerk approval. (Ord. 2013-04, 1-22-2013)
   G.   Vacation Pay Upon Termination: An employee who terminates during the
initial probationary period shall not be entitled to compensation for accrued
vacation leave. Those employees who have completed their initial probationary
period, have been appointed career status, and have then become separated from
the City shall be entitled to payment for accrued vacation leave. In no case
shall payment be for more than the maximum accumulation. In case of death,
compensation of accrued vacation shall be paid in the same manner that salary
due to the decedent is paid.
   H.   Transfer Of Vacation Leave: When an employee is transferred or
appointed to another department, his/her vacation credit shall be assumed by
the new department.
   I.   Use Of Vacation Leave: Employees are eligible to use accrued to date
vacation after they have completed probation to City.
   J.   Paid Health Leave:
      1.   Accrual Of Health Leave: Paid health leave shall accrue at the rate
of one working day of leave for each full calendar month of service and shall
be credited to the employee's health leave account the first day of the month
following accrual. Unused health leave may be accumulated with a maximum of
sixty (60) days (480 hours) limit. Employees having unpaid leave during a
calendar month shall accrue health leave in the same manner as vacation leave.
         a.   Seasonal and temporary employees shall not accrue health leave.
         b.   Part time classified employees shall accrue health leave on a
prorated basis.
         c.   New employees are eligible to accrue and use health leave during
their initial probationary period.
      2.   Use Of Leave: Employees may use their allowance of health leave when
unable to perform their duties by reason of illness, physical illness, mental
illness, severe emotional distress, off the job injury, pregnancy, necessity
for medical or dental care, or exposure to contagious disease under
circumstances by which the health of other employees or members of the public
necessarily dealt with would be endangered by the attendance of the employee.
Serious illness or death in the employee's immediate family requiring the
presence of the employee shall not exceed a period of more than three (3)
consecutive working days. Use of health leave for nonserious illness in the
immediate family shall not exceed more than three (3) working days within any
one a calendar year. Any additional time must be credited against vacation,
accrued compensatory time or leave without pay and must be approved by the City
Clerk.
Charges to the health leave account must be submitted immediately upon the
employee's return to work. In order to receive compensation while absent on
sick leave, the employee shall notify his/her immediate supervisor or the City
Clerk prior to or within thirty (30) minutes after the time set for beginning
his/her daily duties.
      3.   Maximum Accumulation Of Health Leave: Unused health leave shall be
accumulated to a total of not more than sixty (60) working days (480 hours).
Health leave is a privilege granted by the City so that an illness or injury
will not impose a great financial hardship on employees. It is not a form of
additional vacation leave and will not be paid in cash upon separation. Misuse
of health leave is a cause for disciplinary action as provided.
      4.   Transfer Of Health Leave: When an employee is transferred or
appointed to another department, his/her health leave credit shall be assumed
by the new department.
      5.   Absence Paid By Workers' Compensation Insurance: All City employees
are covered by this form of insurance at no cost to the employee. Workers'
compensation provides medical and hospitalization benefits, as well as partial
payments in lieu of salary for workers injured on the job. However, all
employees receiving full salaries in lieu of temporary disability must remit
any funds received under workers' compensation to the City. The purpose of this
regulation is to ensure that an employee does not suffer an economic hardship
as a result of a work related injury. However, the employee should not make a
financial gain as a result of his injury.
      6.   Certification Of Illness: Department heads may require certification
of the attending physician or practitioner to substantiate an illness or injury
in excess of three (3) days which prevent an employee from working.
      7.   Advanced Health Leave: The City Clerk may grant not more than ten
(10) days of advanced health leave to an employee. The advanced health leave
will be repaid by the employee through normal health leave accrual process or
through transfer of vacation accrual.
   K.   Maternity/Paternity Leave: It is the purpose of this policy to increase
employment opportunities for women and to remove those barriers which inhibit
the full utilization of women in the work force.
      1.   Pregnancy: Pregnancy is defined and/or treated as a temporary
disability and health leave with pay shall be granted as needed to a pregnant
employee for which he or she has accrued sick leave time.
      2.   Use Of Health Leave: A leave of absence shall be granted for
maternity purposes to female employees on the following basis:
         a.   An employee who applies for maternity leave must submit her
request in writing indicating whether or not she intends to return to duty
after deliver. She should attach thereto her physician's written certificate
stating the approximate date on which she will be incapacitated for the full
performance of her duties because of pregnancy and stating the expected
delivery date.
         b.   An employee will be expected to work before delivery until she
cannot adequately perform the duties of her job or it is no longer safe for her
to do so as certified by her attending physician. An employee who intends to
return to duty after delivery will be expected to do so as soon as she is
physically fit as certified by her physician.
         c.   The use of paid sick leave or vacation for maternity shall be
only for the period of time which the employee herself is physically disabled,
and only to the extent that the employee has health or vacation leave
accumulated.
         d.   The employee shall be responsible for providing any physician
statements as required by the City to determine the commencement and
termination period of physical disability.
         e.   An employee who has indicated that she does not intend to return
to duty after delivery will be granted the use of any health leave to her
credit during the periods before and immediately after the actual delivery
which can be supported by her physician's certificate. She will submit her
resignation at the time she begins her maternity leave. When she has used the
health leave approved, she will be separated from the payroll.
         f.   When there is any question about the physical ability of a
pregnant employee to perform her job without hazard to her health, the
supervisor may discuss the employee's case with her physician.
         g.   Pregnant women should not be employed in work involving exposure
to toxic substances such as ammonia, carbon tetrachloride, mercury and its
compounds, methyl alcohol, turpentine, and other toxic substances that exert an
injurious effect upon the blood forming organs, the liver or the kidneys. When
it is found that the duties of the employee require activity or exposure which
may be injurious to her health, a reasonable effort will be made to detail or
temporarily reassign her to other work for which she is qualified. If another
assignment is not available, she shall be placed immediately on maternity
leave.
      3.   Ability/inability To Perform: Decisions on the ability or inability
of workers to perform their jobs during pregnancy or following childbirth shall
be made on an individual basis as recommended by department head and approved
by the City Clerk.
      4.   Reassignment: At the department head's recommendation and/or the
employee's request, during the pregnancy and/or postpartum recovery, the City
Clerk may, using discretion, assign the employee to temporary duties of a less
strenuous or demanding nature, or part time work within the employee's assigned
section.
      5.   Leave Without Pay: Maternity leave without pay shall be granted to a
pregnant employee for the time in which she is physically incapacitated for
work, after birth, up to one hundred twenty (120) calendar days, as verified by
her physician's statement in accordance with these rules.
      6.   Temporary Return To Duty: Temporary return to duty is not authorized
and constitutes termination of maternity leave.
      7.   Right To Return: No employee has a vested right to return to the
exact same position; however, the department head will reinstate that employee
to the original job or to a position of like status and pay without loss of
benefits or seniority.
      8.   Paternity Leave: Paternity leave will be granted for the birth of
the child or grandchild of the employee, at the discretion of the City Clerk,
on the same basis as maternity leave.
   L.   Military Leave: The following is for illustrative purposes only.
Arizona Revised Statutes should be consulted for current language.
      1.   Arizona Revised Statutes 38-610, Leave Of Absence For Military
Training: The officers and employees of the State, or of any county, city or
town, or of any agency or political subdivision thereof, shall be granted
leaves of absence from their duties without loss of time, pay or efficiency
rating, on all days during which they are employed on training duty under
orders with any branch of the armed forces of the United States, for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) days in any two (2) consecutive calendar years. The
period of time spent in training under orders shall not be deducted from the
vacation period with pay to which any officer or employee is otherwise
entitled.
      2.   Arizona Revised Statutes 38-298, Restoration To Position Following
Military Service: City employees having been inducted or ordered into active
service in the armed forces of the United States after August 1, 1939, shall,
upon completion of service, be restored to the position held at the time of
induction, or to a position having similar or other duties which he or she is
qualified to discharge, and of like status and pay, if such officer or
employee:
         a.   Possesses a certificate of satisfactory training and service or
honorable discharge issued by the proper military or naval authority;
         b.   Is still qualified to perform the duties of the position;
         c.   Applies for restoration within sixty (60) days after separation
from the armed forces;
         d.   Has either served in the armed forces during time of war or was
called to service because of his status as an active or inactive member of the
reserve.
      3.   Arizona Revised Statutes 38-297, Vacancy Resulting From Military
Service; Notice To Appointee: When a vacancy exists through the induction or
order of a public officer or employee described in Arizona Revised Statutes 38-
298 into the armed forces of the United States, the appointing or employing
authority shall inform any person appointed to fill the vacancy that his
tenure, apart from other considerations, is contingent upon restoration of the
former officer or employee as provided in Arizona Revised Statutes 38-298.
      4.   Arizona Revised Statutes 26-167, Employment Discrimination Against
National Guard Member Prohibited; Physical Or Economic Duress To Deter
Enlistment Prohibited: A member of the National Guard shall not, because of
membership therein or absence from employment under competent military orders,
be deprived of employment or prevented or obstructed in obtaining employment in
his trade, occupation, or profession, nor shall any person be dissuaded from
enlisting in the military forces of the State or the United States by threat of
or actual infliction of physical punishment or economic damage.
      5.   Arizona Revised Statutes 26-268, Absence From Employment For
Military Duty; Vacation And Seniority Rights:
         a.   An employer shall not refuse to permit members of the National
Guard to take leaves of absence from employment for the purpose of complying
with competent orders of the State or the United States for active duty, or to
attend camps, maneuvers, formations or armory drills. The leaves of absence
shall not affect vacation rights which employees otherwise have, except that an
employer need not consider the period of absence as a period of work performed
for him/her in determining eligibility for vacation and the amount of vacation
pay to which the employee is entitled.
         b.   A member of the National Guard shall not lose seniority or
precedence while absent under competent military orders. Upon return to
employment the employee shall be returned to his previous position or to a
higher position commensurate with his ability and experience as seniority or
precedence would ordinarily entitle him/her.
         c.   An officer or employee of the State or any department or
political subdivision thereof, who is a member of the National Guard shall be
entitled to leave of absence from his/her duties without loss of time or
efficiency rating on all days during which he or she is engaged in field
training as provided by this chapter and for a period during leave of absence
not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days in any two (2) consecutive calendar
years he or she shall be entitled to his/her pay.
         d.   A person violating any provision of subsection L5a or L5b of this
section is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   M.   Other Leaves Of Absence With Pay: In cases of special hardships, or in
other cases not provided for in these regulations, the City Council may grant
short term absence at full or partial pay. Examples of such absence include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   Jury Duty: Service with a jury, provided that the salary paid to the
employee for the period of absence shall be reduced by the amount of monies he/
she received for jury service, excluding mileage and/or meal reimbursement.
      2.   Witness: Appearance before a court, legislative committee, judicial
or quasi-judicial body as a witness in response to a subpoena or other
direction by proper authority (provided that the salary paid to such employees
shall be reduced by an equal amount to any compensation he/she may receive as
witness fees, excluding mileage and/or meal reimbursement).
      3.   Court: Attendance in court (in connection with an employee's
official assigned duties), including the time required going to the court and
returning to his/her work site (provided that the salary paid to such employees
shall be reduced by an equal amount to any compensation he or she may receive
as witness fees, excluding mileage and/or meals reimbursement).
      4.   Training: Absence to attend an authorized course of instruction
directly related to the employee's duties.
      5.   Other: Other authorized duties in connection with City business.
   N.   Leaves Of Absence Without Pay: In instances where the work will not be
seriously handicapped by the temporary absence of an employee, the City Clerk
may grant a leave of absence without pay not to exceed thirty (30) days. Any
request exceeding thirty (30) days must be approved by the City Council.
Request for such leave must be in writing and must establish reasonable
justification.
Leaves of absence without pay will not be approved if an employee is accepting
employment outside the City service.
      1.   Health Leave Accrual: Employees shall accumulate health leave in
accordance with these rules.
      2.   Vacation Leave Accrual: Employees shall accumulate vacation leave in
accordance with these rules.
      3.   Status Of Health/Dental Insurance: If an employee takes a leave of
absence, the City may pay the cost of the health/dental insurance premiums for
a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days. Employees on leave of
absence without pay as a result of temporary disability may have their health/
dental insurance premiums paid by the City for a period of sixty (60) calendar
days, as indicated in these rules.
      4.   Job Availability Upon Return From Leave:
         a.   For leaves of absence without pay for periods of thirty (30) days
or less, the employee shall be restored to the position he or she previously
occupied without loss of benefits provided for career employees.
         b.   For leaves of absence without pay for periods in excess of thirty
(30) days, the City shall make reasonable attempts to restore an employee to
the position he or she occupied prior to the commencement of the leave of
absence. The City is unable to guarantee to an employee that his/her particular
position will be available upon return from leave due to the possibility of
program changes, discontinuance of funds, or other organizational alterations.
Should the City be unable to restore an employee to original position, City
will attempt to place employee in such other position which may be available,
the duties of which the employee is qualified to perform. Such position will
provide the employee the status and pay, or the nearest approximation thereof,
to the position previously occupied. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-18: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Preparation Of Plan: The personnel officer of the person or agency
employed for that purpose shall prepare a pay plan covering all classes of
positions in the classified service. In arriving at salary rates or ranges,
consideration shall be given to prevailing rates of pay and consideration of
working conditions for comparable work in public and private employment, to
current costs of living, to suggestions of department managers, to the City's
financial condition and policies, and to other relevant factors.
   B.   Adoption, Amendment Or Revision Plan: The pay plan shall be adopted and
may be amended and revised from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
No position shall be assigned a salary not in conformance with the salary
schedule unless the salary schedule for the class is amended in the same manner
as provided for its adoption.
   C.   Application Of Rates: Employees occupying a position in the City's
service shall be paid a salary or wage established for that position's class
under the pay plan. Except for a reinstated employee, a new employee shall
start at the first step in the appropriate class unless the City Clerk
determines that qualified applicants are not available at the salary specified
at the first step, or that an applicant has special qualifications that justify
a higher starting rate than the first step. The City Clerk shall approve the
starting rate for all now or reinstated employees.
   D.   Advancement: No salary advancement shall be made so as to exceed any
maximum rate established in the pay plan for the class to which the advanced
employee's position is allocated. Advancements shall not be automatic but shall
depend upon increased service value of an employee to the City as exemplified
by the recommendation of his/her supervising official, length of service,
performance record, special training undertaken or other pertinent evidence
within the advancement policy established by the pay plan.
When approved, the effective date of merit increases shall be the first day of
the biweekly pay period following the classification date, except that when the
classification date falls on the first payday of a pay period, the advancement
shall be effective on that date.
Advancements within the pay range for all classified and unclassified personnel
shall be in amounts and at such intervals as determined by the pay plan. The
City Clerk will be required to approve advancements in these areas. Salaries
and advancements for the positions of City Clerk, City Marshal and Public Works
Director shall be in amounts and at intervals as determined by the City
Council.
   E.   Temporary Detail: Upon the recommendation of the department manager and
upon the approval of the employee and the City Clerk, an employee may be
detailed on a temporary basis to a higher grade position than that normally
covered by his/her job classification. Such detail shall be limited to a period
of six (6) months. If the appointment is longer than two (2) consecutive pay
periods, the employee shall be paid at the rate of the higher class beginning
with the first day of the detail.
   F.   Clothing Allowances And Uniforms: Clothing allowances and uniform
privileges shall be set by the Council in its annual budget and administrated
by administrative regulations within each department.
   G.   Travel And Expense Reimbursement: The City will reimburse employees and
officials for actual travel, accommodations and registration expenses incurred
during the conduct of City business, training, seminars and conferences, so
long as the trip/conference/seminar has appropriate prior approval. No employee
or official should realize a financial gain or loss as a result of traveling on
behalf of or on approval of the City.
Approval of travel/conference/training for all elected officials and
commissioners and the City Clerk shall be by the City Council. Inclusion of
specific conferences and/or seminars in the adopted annual budget for these
employees and officials shall constitute appropriate approval.
Approval for conferences, seminars and travel for all other employees shall be
granted by the department head on an individual case basis. However, it is
expected that the conferences and seminars will be proposed and considered
during annual budget reviews, and no travel shall exceed the annual department/
account travel budget without prior approval of the City Clerk.
Reimbursement will be made for such expenses upon submission of a duly approved
and substantiated "travel and expense" form. To avoid delay in processing, it
is important that the form be complete and have all required expenditure
receipts attached.
Direct billings to the City are acceptable only for air travel, hotel/motel
accommodations, and when City provided credit cards are furnished. City credit
cards are provided for convenience and are intended for official City business
only; the credit cards are not authorized to be used for personal expenses.
Travel, hotel/motel accommodations, registration and enrollment fees and some
other expenses are to be paid directly for the actual costs incurred. Meals and
tips are to be reimbursed on an actual cost basis for required travel and
conference attendance.
      1.   Travel: All air travel shall be coach or tourist class. Should a
route or schedule change result in a credit due the City, a credit form should
be completed either with the airline or with the credit card company.
Any and all department travel expenses shall be billed directly to the
employee. The City should not be placed in the position of obtaining
reimbursement for any travel expenses incurred for employees or City official
dependent travel.
If approved by the City Clerk in advance, the employee may combine vacation
with City business. In such case, only the City business portions of the trip
will be reimbursed and a clear cutoff between the business portion and the
vacation portion of the trip should be evident.
All mileage in private vehicles on job related business, conferences or
seminars is reimbursed at the current IRS rate. Before using a private vehicle
for such travel, the employee should check with his/her supervisor to be
assured that City vehicles are not available.
      2.   Accommodations: It is the intention of the City that employees and
officials on authorized travel receive adequate but not ostentatious hotel/
motel accommodations. Normally there are designated hotels/motels for
conferences and seminars which can and should be utilized.
Direct billing to the City for accommodations related to approved travel and
conferences are acceptable, although a prior purchase order would expedite the
billing. Likewise, a purchase order and direct billing for conference/seminar
registration fees is encouraged.
      3.   General Information:
         a.   Requests for per diem reimbursements may be made in advance for
travel with reconciliation made after the trip. Per them requests will be made
by City warrant/check unless extenuating circumstances make the earlier request
impractical.
         b.   All receipts for travel and reimbursable expenses must be
attached to the "travel and expense" form. If a receipt is not kept, an
authorization to pay must be filled out and approved by the appropriate
department head and the City Clerk.
         c.   All "travel and expense" forms should be submitted no later than
five (5) working days after return from travel. Any reconciliation between
advance and monies due employee/official will be resolved and payments due
employee will be made by warrant/check with the next regular City payment
cycle. Monies due the City should be included with the "travel and expense"
form.
         d.   Employees are encouraged to accumulate claims of minimal amounts
for reimbursement under this policy rather than submit them as they occur.
         e.   Allowable expenses (examples):
   Direct Reimbursement/Payment:
      Mileage expense for City business use of personal vehicles
      Air travel
      Rail travel
      Taxi (including tip)
      Bus and subway fares
      Auto rental
      Telephone expense for City business calls
      Lodging
      Baggage checking charge
      Parking and toll fees
      Conference/seminar registration and/or tuition
      Conference related tour expenses (inspections, etc.)
      Laundry (for trips in excess of 4 days)
      One personal telephone call (of reasonable duration) per each two (2)
days of trip
   Per Diem Reimbursement:
      Meals (including tip)
   Unallowable Expenses (examples):
      Items of a personal nature are not reimbursed
      Purchase of alcoholic beverages or personal items
      Barber, shoeshine, similar items
      Movies, shows, sporting events
      Fines, traffic or parking violations
      Excess expenses incurred by making side trips for personal convenience
      Loss of personal property
      Loss of cash advance money, personal funds or tickets, magazines,
newspapers, etc.
      Charges incurred from third party misuse of lost credit cards personal
phone calls in excess of allowed
      Travel insurance other than that provided by the City (includes air
flight and auto rental collision and liability)
      Maintenance and/or repair of personal property
   H.   Biweekly Compensation: Employees shall be compensated on a biweekly
schedule.
   I.   Reclassification Range Adjustment: When an occupied position is
reclassified and assigned to a higher pay range, the employee shall be placed
on a step in the new pay range which is normally five percent (5%) higher than
he/she was receiving in his/her former pay range. With a maximum salary
increase established at ten percent (10%), any personnel action requiring a
step/range increase greater than ten percent (10%) shall require the approval
of both the personnel officer and the City Clerk. The same policy shall be
applied to range adjustments. The classification date shall not be affected by
reclassification or range adjustment.
   J.   Special Assignment: Upon recommendation of the department head and upon
approval of the City Clerk, law enforcement employees may be temporarily
assigned to positions outside the classified service. Special assignments may
be for indefinite periods of time and, while on special assignment, the
employee loses no rights or entitlements held in his/her permanent position.
Selection, assignment and reassignment are not appeal able under the personnel
rules and regulations. While on special assignment, the employee shall receive
assignment pay. When relieved from special assignment, the assignment pay shall
be immediately discontinued and the employee returned to his/her permanent
position, pay range and step.
For training purposes, employees, with approval, may be placed in special
assignment positions for up to ninety (90) days by the department head. They
shall not be entitled to or receive assignment pay. However, it the training
assignment exceeds ninety (90) days, the employee shall receive assignment pay
commencing with the ninety first day. The employee will be credited for time
served in a training assignment and no employee shall be required to serve and
complete more than one training assignment for each special assignment
position.
The City Clerk will publish an administrative memorandum outlining the policies
and procedures of special assignment and assignment pay. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-
1989)
1-19-19: MINIMUM WAGES, PAY AND OVERTIME, STANDBY AND CALLBACK:
   A.   Purpose: To protect the interests of the City and the employee, and to
ensure compliance with applicable parts of the Fair Labor Standard Act, as
amended, and pertinent State laws, by regulating wages and salaries and other
miscellaneous pay for City employees.
   B.   Coverage: Unless specifically exempt, the provisions contained in this
rule are applicable to all City employees: permanent, temporary, full time and
part time.
   C.   Minimum Wages: Wages and salaries of all classes of positions will meet
the minimum wage standards as established by Federal and State laws.
   D.   Overtime Compensation:
      1.   It is the policy of the City to administer and manage its business
in order that there is a minimum need for overtime work by its employees,
consistent with the protection of the lives and property of the Tombstone
citizens and the efficient operation of the several departments and activities
of the City. Any overtime hours must be authorized by both the employee's
supervisor and department head, and subject to any further administrative rules
and procedures as the City Clerk may prescribe.
      2.   Overtime work for all employees, except as otherwise provided, is
any time worked over and above the normally scheduled workday hours or weekly
scheduled hours. If time is lost during the regular workday for an unexcused
absence, the premium overtime pay provided herein shall not be allowed. Time
worked in excess of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days because of the
change in days off or shift shall not be considered as overtime. Overtime shall
commence at the time an employee reaches a place where the employee is directed
to report and shall continue until released or the work is completed, whichever
is earlier.
      3.   Compensation to employees working overtime will be in the form of
compensatory time off or, at the option of the employee, in cash payment.
Compensatory time balances may accrue to a maximum of twenty four (24) hours
for all employees after which any and all overtime hours In excess of the
respective twenty four (24) hours will be paid in the pay period in which the
maximum allowed is exceeded. Premium pay for overtime shall be paid in any pay
period only to the respective twenty four (24) hour balance unless the employee
requests payment for the entire balance or any other portion of the current
balance.
      4.   Scheduling off of compensatory time balances shall be at the
employee's discretion, subject to approval by the employee's supervisor so as
to assure minimum impact to the work load and to the other employees.
      5.   Overtime work, either in the form of compensatory time or cash
payment, shall be earned at the rate of one and one-half (11/2) times for hours
worked on overtime or at the rate of one and one- half (11/2) times the
employee's basic hourly schedule.
      6.   Overtime compensation provisions shall not apply to Council
appointed officers, department heads, nor certain other positions designated by
administrative order or the City compensation plan. Such personnel are
compensated on the basis of responsibilities and characteristics of duties
performed and are not considered to work the minimum established workweek.
Administrative "in lieu" time off for management and other designated exempt
positions are hereby authorized, subject to the administration of the City
Clerk. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
      7.   Employees not otherwise excluded from receiving overtime pay that
are called out to perform unscheduled work either before or after a scheduled
eight (8) hour shift in the same working day shall be compensated in one hour
increments at the rate not less than time and one-half (1/2) their regular
rates of pay until released by the acting supervisor. Part time employees
meeting the overtime eligibility under FLSA shall receive appropriate "call
out" only for time worked beyond an eight (8) hour period in the same working
day. (Ord. 2016-03, 3-8-2016)
      8.   Employees who hold temporary or part time appointments are not
eligible for overtime compensation, but will be compensated for all work
performed at their established rate of pay. The City Clerk may, under
conditions considered appropriate, with the approval of the appropriate
department head, authorize overtime compensation for employees holding
temporary, part time or other special appointments.
      9.   In case of disaster, state of extreme emergency or local peril, or
in other special and abnormal situations, the overtime procedures herein
established may be modified by the City Clerk, with the approval of the
appropriate department head, and compensation procedures will be determined at
that time for such conditions.
      10.   The City Clerk may authorize overtime pay for any part time
employee when required for the efficient operation of the City.
      11.   The Mayor and Council may authorize overtime pay under conditions
considered appropriate for employees holding temporary, part time, or other
special appointments.
   E.   Early Relief: The practice of early relief is not authorized or
approved.
   F.   Shift Trading: The trading of shifts or parts of shifts among law
enforcement employees is authorized when approved by the department head or
supervisors designated by the department head. Extra time accrued during a work
period as a result of trading shifts shall not be counted as hours worked for
overtime purposes. All requests for shift trades must meet the following
criteria:
      1.   The trade is voluntary by the employee;
      2.   The reason is to attend to matters of a personal or emergency
nature.
Shift trade shall not be approved for the purpose of performing off duty
employment.
Records shall be maintained of all shift trades. All trades must be paid back
within thirty (30) days. The unfilled obligation, resulting from failure of any
employee to pay back a shift trade, shall not be assumed by or transferred to
the City. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
1-19-20: AGENCY PROVIDED BENEFITS:
   A.   Health/Dental Plans: This section of the personnel rules is primarily
informational. The health and dental plans are based on a contractual agreement
between the City and the selected health and dental insurance carriers. All
contracts for such services must be approved by the City Council.
      1.   Eligibility: Any employee in the executive, management, unclassified
or classified service, whether on probation to position or career status, is
eligible to participate in the health and dental plan.
      2.   Enrollment: The enrollment periods when employees may join the
health and dental plans shall be stipulated in the contracts with the insurance
carrier. Normally eligibility for enrollment shall be from day one of
employment.
      3.   Premiums: Upon hiring, the City will pay the total premium for
employee coverage for the health insurance and all dental insurance premiums.
Employees may elect to "self-pay" family health insurance. Unclassified
employees will pay the full premiums from their compensation or reimburse the
City for any coverage they elect.
      4.   Coverage During Leaves Of Absence:
         a.   Employees on leaves of absence with pay will have their health
plan continued with the City paying their monthly premiums.
         b.   An employee on leave of absence without pay may, upon
recommendation of the department head and approval of the City Clerk, continue
the insurance coverage, provided that the entire health and dental insurance
premium is paid by the employee.
         c.   An employee on leave of absence without pay for purposes
beneficial to the City, or for the reason of illness, injury or disability,
may, upon the recommendation of the department head and approval of the City
Clerk, continue the health and dental insurance coverage, the cost of which may
be borne by the City and the employee for monthly premiums in accordance with
the employee benefit agreement.
      5.   Additional Information: More detailed information concerning
coverage and benefits can be obtained from the personnel office. All claims are
processed directly by the insurance carrier. Claim forms are available from the
personnel office.
   B.   Workers' Compensation: Workers' compensation shall be provided to City
employees through the State Compensation Fund for injuries sustained while in
the official performance of job assignments with the City. Employee shall be
paid regular salary for full period authorized by workers' compensation except
that all workers' compensation shall be paid to the City.
   C.   Federal Social Security Benefits: Employees shall have deducted from
their monthly paycheck a percentage of the gross monthly income for the
purposes of social security benefits as they apply to retirement, survivorship
and disability. The amount to be deducted shall be determined in accordance
with the established rate and shall be listed on the itemization of deductions
on the payroll check in the FICA (Federal Insurance Contribution Act) account.
   D.   Unemployment Insurance: Unemployment insurance is provided City
employees in accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes 23-601, 23-790. The
conditions that apply to this insurance are specific limit participation, and
may be obtained from the State Department of Economic Security, unemployment
section. (Res. 28-1989, 11-13-1989)
CHAPTER 20
RATE OF PAY, COURT APPOINTED ATTORNEYS
SECTION:
1-20-1: Payment
1-20-2: Reimbursed Costs And Expenses
1-20-3: Prisoner Work, Community Restitution Work And Home Detention Program;
Eligibility; Monitoring; Procedures; Continuous Alcohol Monitoring Program;
Home Detention For Persons Sentenced For Driving Under The Influence Of Alcohol
Or Drugs
1-20-1: PAYMENT:
Payment to attorneys appointed by the Tombstone Magistrate to represent
indigent criminal defendants shall be as follows:
   A.   Plea Bargained: One hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per hour not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each case that is plea
bargained. In the alternative, the appointed attorney may contract with the
City for a flat fee payment of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per case provided
that the contract is approved by the Magistrate before services commence. A
flat fee agreement shall include all costs and expenses that may otherwise be
subject to reimbursement under section
1-20-2 of this chapter. The appointed attorney shall be required for preparing
and received (file stamped) by City Magistrate Court a flat fee contract within
ten (10) judicial days of the appointment in order to obligate the City to a
flat fee case.
   B.   Magistrate In Court: One hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per hour
not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each case tried by the
Magistrate Court. In the alternative, the appointed attorney may contract with
the City for a flat fee payment of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
case provided that the contract is approved by the Magistrate before services
commence. A flat fee agreement shall include all costs and expenses that may
otherwise be subject to reimbursement under section
1-20-2 of this chapter. The appointed attorney shall be required for preparing
and received (file stamped) by City Magistrate Court a flat fee contract within
ten (10) judicial days of the appointment in order to obligate the City to a
flat fee case.
   C.   Jury In Court: One hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per hour not
to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each case tried
with a jury in court. (Ord. 2019-01, 3-12-2019)
1-20-2: REIMBURSED COSTS AND EXPENSES:
No out-of-pocket or business costs or expenses shall be reimbursed, including,
but not limited to: copies, postage, telephone charges, fax transmissions,
travel time or expenses, research database fees, messenger services, records
requests or production, subpoenas, service of process, expert witnesses or any
other related costs or expenses unless approved by the Magistrate. In no event,
shall such costs or expenses exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 2019-01, 3-12-2019)
1-20-3: PRISONER WORK, COMMUNITY RESTITUTION WORK AND HOME DETENTION PROGRAM;
ELIGIBILITY; MONITORING; PROCEDURES; CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING PROGRAM;
HOME DETENTION FOR PERSONS SENTENCED FOR DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL
OR DRUGS:
   A.   The Tombstone City Magistrate Court, hereinafter referred to as "the
City Magistrate", may establish a prisoner work, community restitution work and
home detention program for eligible sentenced prisoners, which shall be treated
the same as confinement in jail. The presiding Judge of the City Municipal
Court shall approve the program before its implementation.
   B.   A prisoner is not eligible for a prisoner work, community restitution
work and home detention program or a continuous alcohol monitoring program if
any of the following applies:
      1.   The prisoner is found by the City Magistrate to constitute a risk to
either himself or other members of the community.
      2.   The prisoner has a past history of violent behavior.
      3.   The sentencing Judge states at the time of the sentence that the
prisoner may not be eligible for a prisoner work, community restitution work
and home detention program or a continuous alcohol monitoring program.
   C.   For prisoners who are selected for a program established pursuant to
subsection A of this section, the City Magistrate may require electronic
monitoring in the prisoner's home whenever the prisoner is not at the
prisoner's regular place of employment or while the prisoner is assigned to a
community work task. If electronic monitoring is required, the prisoner shall
remain under the control of a home detention device that constantly monitors
the prisoner's location in order to determine that the prisoner has not left
the prisoner's premises. In all other cases, the City Magistrate shall
implement a system of monitoring using telephone contact or other appropriate
methods to assure compliance with the home detention requirements. The City
Magistrate may place appropriate restrictions on prisoners in the program,
including testing prisoners for consumption of alcoholic beverages or drugs or
prohibiting association with individuals who are determined to be detrimental
to the prisoner's successful participation in the program.
   D.   If a prisoner is placed on electronic monitoring pursuant to subsection
C of this section, the City Magistrate may order the prisoner to pay the
electronic monitoring fee in an amount ranging from zero (0) to full cost and
thirty dollars ($30.00) per month while on electronic monitoring unless, after
determining the inability of the prisoner to pay these fees, the City assesses
a lesser fee. The City Magistrate shall use the fees collected to offset
operational costs of the program.
   E.   The City Magistrate may require that a prisoner who is employed during
the week also participate in community restitution work programs on weekends.
   F.   The City Magistrate may allow prisoners to be away from home detention
for special purposes, including church attendance, medical appointments or
funerals.
   G.   Community restitution work shall include public works projects operated
and supervised by the City Magistrate or other public agencies of this State or
projects sponsored and supervised by public or private community oriented
organizations and agencies.
   H.   A city implementing a program established pursuant to subsection A of
this section may appoint a Community Restitution Work Committee. The committee
shall recommend to the City Magistrate appropriate community restitution work
projects for home detention prisoners. Members are not eligible to receive
compensation.
   I.   At any time the City Magistrate may terminate a prisoner's
participation in the prisoner work, community restitution work and home
detention program or continuous alcohol monitoring program and require that the
prisoner complete the remaining term of the prisoner's sentence in jail
confinement.
   J.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a city from entering into a
joint exercise of powers agreement pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section
11-952 for a prisoner work, community restitution work and home detention
program.
   K.   If authorized by the court, a person who is sentenced pursuant to
Arizona Revised Statutes section 28-1381 or 28-1382 shall not be placed under
home detention in a prisoner work, community restitution work and home
detention program or continuous alcohol monitoring program except as provided
in subsections L through R of this section.
   L.   By a majority vote of the full membership of the Governing Body of the
Municipality after a public hearing and a finding of necessity, a city may
establish a home detention program for persons who are sentenced to jail
confinement pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 28-1381 or 28-1382. A
prisoner who is placed under the program established pursuant to this
subsection shall bear the cost of all testing, monitoring and enrollment in
alcohol or substance abuse programs unless, after determining the inability of
the prisoner to pay the cost, the court assesses a lesser amount. The City
Magistrate shall use the collected monies to offset operational costs of the
program.
   M.   A City Magistrate may establish a continuous alcohol monitoring program
for persons who are sentenced to jail confinement pursuant to Arizona Revised
Statutes section 28-1381 or 28-1382, which shall be treated the same as
confinement in jail. The presiding Judge of the City Municipal Court shall
approve the program before its implementation. A prisoner who is placed under a
continuous alcohol monitoring program established pursuant to this subsection
shall bear the cost of all testing, monitoring and enrollment in the program
and pay thirty dollars ($30.00) per month while in the program, unless, after
determining the inability of the prisoner to pay the cost, the court assesses a
lesser amount. The City Magistrate shall use the collected monies to offset
operational costs of the program.
   N.   If the City Magistrate establishes a home detention or continuous
alcohol monitoring program under subsection L or M of this section, a prisoner
must meet the following eligibility requirements for the program:
      1.   Subsection B of this section applies in determining eligibility for
the program.
      2.   If the prisoner is sentenced under Arizona Revised Statutes section
28-1381, subsection I, the prisoner first serves a minimum of one day in jail.
      3.   Notwithstanding Arizona Revised Statutes section 28-1387, subsection
C, if the prisoner is sentenced under Arizona Revised Statutes section 28-1381,
subsection K or section 28-1382, subsection D or E, the prisoner first serves a
minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the initial term of incarceration in jail
before being placed under home detention or continuous alcohol monitoring.
      4.   If placed under home detention, the prisoner is required to comply
with all of the following provisions for the duration of the prisoner's
participation in the home detention program:
         a.   All of the provisions of subsections C through G of this section.
         b.   Testing at least once a day for the use of alcoholic beverages or
drugs by a scientific method that is not limited to urinalysis or a breath or
intoxication test in the prisoner's home or at the office of a person
designated by the court to conduct these tests.
         c.   Participation in an alcohol or drug program, or both. These
programs shall be accredited by the Department of Health Services or a County
Probation Department.
         d.   Prohibition of association with any individual determined to be
detrimental to the prisoner's successful participation in the program.
         e.   All other provisions of the sentence imposed.
      5.   Any additional eligibility criteria that the City Magistrate may
impose.
   O.   If a city establishes a home detention program under subsection L of
this section, the court, on placing the prisoner in the program, shall require
electronic monitoring in the prisoner's home and, if consecutive hours of jail
time are ordered, shall require the prisoner to remain at home during the
consecutive hours ordered. The detention device shall constantly monitor the
prisoner's location to ensure that the prisoner does not leave the premises.
Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to waive the minimum jail
confinement requirements under subsection N2 of this section.
   P.   The court may terminate a prisoner's participation in the home
detention or continuous alcohol monitoring program and require the prisoner to
complete the remaining term of the jail sentence by jail confinement if:
      1.   The prisoner fails to successfully complete a court ordered alcohol
or drug screening, counseling, education and treatment program pursuant to
subsection N4c of this section or Arizona Revised Statutes section 28-1381,
subsection J or L.
      2.   If placed under home detention, the court finds that the prisoner
left the premises without permission of the court or supervising authority
during a time the prisoner is ordered to be on the premises.
   Q.   At any other time the court may terminate a prisoner's participation in
the home detention or continuous alcohol monitoring program and require the
prisoner to complete the remaining term of the jail sentence by jail
confinement.
   R.   The City Magistrate may terminate the program established under
subsection L of this section by a majority vote of the full membership of the
Governing Body.
   S.   The City of Tombstone, with advice and recommendations from the City
Magistrate, may engage vendor services to administer the program(s) in
accordance with chapter 18 of this title. (Ord. 2019-01, 3-12-2019)
CHAPTER 21
HISTORICAL RECORDS PRESERVATION, STORAGE AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-21-1: Short Title
1-21-2: Purpose
1-21-3: Definitions
1-21-4: Depository Of Official Archives
1-21-5: Historical Documents Manager
1-21-6: Duties Of Department Heads
1-21-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY RECORDS MANAGEMENT
CODE. (Ord. 2014-06, 10-14-2014)
1-21-2: PURPOSE:
Article IV, section 1 of the Tombstone city charter imposes a duty on the
common council, by ordinance or resolution, to provide for the management and
preservation of the records, papers and archives of a said city. The purpose of
this chapter shall be to establish and implement a records management system
for the effective and efficient maintenance, retention, preservation and
disposal of historical records generated by the city of Tombstone in the
performance and administration of its official duties, as required by Arizona
Revised Statutes sections 39-101 et seq., and 41-151.16. (Ord. 2014-06, 10-14-
2014)
1-21-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
AGENCY: All city departments, offices, boards, commissions, authorities,
elected officials and other separate units of city government which generate
and maintain records in the performance and administration of their prescribed
duties and functions.
ARCHIVAL DEPOSITORY: A facility maintained for the permanent retention and
preservation of records that have been determined to have sufficient historical
and other values to warrant their permanent retention under optimum physical
climate control and maximum access security.
RECORD SERIES: A group of records which relate to the same or a similar
function or activity, or which exhibit the same physical format or
characteristics, and which usually are maintained together in a unified and
consistent arrangement.
RECORDS: All books, papers, maps, photographs, volumes, microforms, magnetic
tapes and other materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics,
including prints or copies of such items produced or reproduced on film or
electronic media pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 41-151.16, or any
other law or ordinance, or in the performance of city duties and functions or
received by any city employee or official in connection with the transaction of
public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by the city or
its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies,
decisions, procedures, operations or other activities of the municipal
government, or because of the informational and historical value of data
contained in the record, and includes records that are made confidential by
statute. Library or museum material made or acquired solely for reference or
exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only for convenience
of reference and stocks of publications or documents intended for sale or
distribution to interested persons are not included within the definition of
records as used in this definition.
RETENTION SCHEDULE: A set of disposition instructions prescribing where, how
long, and in what form a specifically defined record series shall be kept. The
definition of a "record series" shall include a succinct and descriptive title,
a statement of the time period covered by the records, a statement of the
specific operations and functions these records support, a listing of the
contents of a typical member of this record series, and an explanation of the
arrangement of the record series. (Ord. 2014-06, 10-14-2014)
1-21-4: DEPOSITORY OF OFFICIAL ARCHIVES:
   A.   The archival depository (hereinafter referred to as "archives") is the
central depository of all official books, records and documents not in current
use of the various city officers, common council and departments of the city.
These materials constitute the city archives. The city archives shall be
carefully kept and preserved, classified, catalogued and made available for
inspection under the laws of the state of Arizona, as well as the rules,
procedures and policies established by the Tombstone city clerk, as adopted by
the common council.
   B.   Each department of the city of Tombstone may implement a program which
is consistent with the program implemented by the office of city clerk for the
production or reproduction by photography or other method of reproduction on
film, microfiche, digital imaging or other electronic media of records in its
custody, whether obsolete or current, and classify, catalog and index such
records for convenient reference. On approval from the city clerk, the source
documents may be destroyed, but only after an administrative audit and after
safeguards are in place to protect the public records pursuant to Arizona
Revised Statutes section 41-151.15, subsection A. Except for the provision
concerning the destruction of the records, the Tombstone marshal's office is
exempt from this section and may create and implement its own program. (Ord.
2014-06, 10-14-2014)
1-21-5: HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS MANAGER:
   A.   The city clerk shall be solely responsible for the collection,
maintenance and dissemination of Tombstone's current and historical records.
However, the city clerk is authorized to delegate this responsibility to a
historical documents manager who shall work under the supervision of the city
clerk and shall have the responsibility over all historical city records except
those entrusted by law to the city marshal or other department head. The city
clerk shall be responsible for:
      1.   Working with the Arizona director of the state library and Arizona
archivists to ensure that the city of Tombstone is preserving, storing and
maintaining Tombstone's historical records in compliance with state statutes.
      2.   Collecting, preserving, maintaining and storing all available
historical works, books, newspaper files, pamphlets, papers, manuscripts,
letters, documents, magazines and newspaper articles, maps, pictures, court
records, church records, private collections and other sources, data pertaining
to the history of the city, including, but not limited to, federal or state
agency records, deeds, titles or items and materials created as a public
document or having some significant bearing on the history of Tombstone.
      3.   Establishing and operating internally, or designate externally, an
archival depository for the permanent preservation of such city records as may
have administrative, legal, fiscal or historical values which require their
permanent retention in a physical facility so constructed and operated as to
secure optimum physical climate control and maximum access security. If
designated externally, such a facility must be an official unit of the Arizona
State Library, archives and public records or must meet criteria approved and
used by the state archives for archival facilities.
      4.   Creating, coordinating and administering the records management
system consistent with the policies and procedures established by the Arizona
State Library, archives and public records pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes
section 41-151.13 and consistent with Arizona's public records laws, found in
Arizona Revised Statutes section 39-101 et seq.
      5.   Disposing or transferring of records to the Arizona State Library in
accordance with the retention schedule approved by the director of the Arizona
State Library, archives and public records.
      6.   Assisting persons in using records stored in the city archival
depository, making available all records except those classified by law and
city policy as confidential.
      7.   Making written reports to the common council upon request, and if
required by the state, to provide such reports, documents and publications to
the state library for filing in the state library archives in the number that
will satisfy the requirements of the state documents program or arrangements or
agreements entered into pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 41-151.05,
subsection A, paragraph 5 except those reports, documents and publications that
are confidential.
      8.   Accepting loans or gifts of rare volumes, manuscripts, maps,
pictures and other articles or things of historical value to Tombstone.
      9.   Classifying, editing, annotating and publishing from time to time
records concerning Tombstone and considered of public interest. (Ord. 2014-06,
10-14-2014)
1-21-6: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS:
Every department head who has public records in the public officer's custody
shall consult periodically with the city clerk, who may then consult with the
state library to determine whether the records in question are of legal,
administrative, historical or other value. Those records determined to be of
legal, administrative, historical or other value shall be preserved. Those
records determined to be of no legal, administrative, historical or other value
shall be disposed of by such method as the state library may specify. A report
of records destruction that includes a list of all records disposed of shall be
filed at least annually with the state library on a form prescribed by the
state library. (Ord. 2014-06, 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER 22
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
SECTION:
1-22-1: Policy
1-22-2: Procedures
1-22-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city of Tombstone to actively pursue collection of past
due accounts receivable, regularly review the status of past due accounts, and
write off amounts determined to be uncollectible. A write off of uncollectible
accounts receivable from the city's accounting records does not constitute
forgiveness of the debt or gift of public funds. This policy applies to all
city departments and funds. (Ord. 2014-04, 7-8-2014)
1-22-2: PROCEDURES:
Collection procedures are established by the responsible departments and will
vary depending on the nature of the receivable. Types of receivables covered by
this chapter include, but are not limited to: business license tax; transient
occupancy tax; water and sewer utility billings; regulatory and development
impact fees; fees for service; recovery for damage to city property; fines and
penalties; and legal judgments.
Accounts receivable should generally be written off during the fiscal year in
which an account is determined to be uncollectible. Subsequent collection of an
account previously written off will be treated as new revenue in the
appropriate fund.
   A.   Designation Of An Account As Uncollectible: An account will be
considered uncollectible after the appropriate collection procedures have been
followed if it meets one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   The debt is disputed and the city has insufficient documentation to
pursue collection efforts;
      2.   The cost of further collection efforts will exceed the estimated
recovery amount;
      3.   The amount is under twenty dollars ($20.00) and remains unpaid after
one year;
      4.   The account remains unpaid after the lesser of four (4) years or the
applicable period for commencement of a recovery action (statute of
limitations);
      5.   The debtor cannot be located, nor any of the debtor's assets;
      6.   The debtor has no assets and there is no expectation they will have
any in the future;
      7.   The debtor has died and there is no known estate of guarantor;
      8.   The debtor is a company which is no longer in business;
      9.   The debt is discharged through legal action (bankruptcy or court
judgment);
      10.   The debt has been forgiven by action of the city council.
   B.   Preparation Of Request For Write Off Of Accounts Receivable: At least
annually, each department will identify any accounts receivable for which it is
responsible that meet the criteria for designation as an uncollectible account.
A request for write off of accounts receivable will be prepared by departmental
staff, signed by the department head, and submitted to the director of finance.
The request for write off of accounts receivable must include an itemized list
of the uncollectible accounts to be written off specifying the following:
      1.   Debtor name;
      2.   Account balance;
      3.   Due date;
      4.   Brief description of receivable type;
      5.   Criteria under which the account was deemed uncollectible;
      6.   Account number of the receivable in the city's accounting system.
For each uncollectible account, documentation must be attached to the request
to support the uncollectible account designation and substantiate that the
department has followed its collection procedures and exercised due diligence
in its collection efforts. Due diligence documentation could include:
      1.   Invoices, reminder letters, or collection letters (and any
documentation that are returned as undeliverable, no known forwarding address,
etc.);
      2.   Information from the Arizona corporation commission;
      3.   Bankruptcy claim and any related plan or discharge;
      4.   Judgment awarded by the court or settlement agreement;
      5.   Notice of discontinuation of services.
   C.   Approval Authority For Write Off Requests: Upon receipt of a request
for write off of accounts receivable by the director of finance, finance
department staff will review the request to ensure that it is complete and that
all necessary due diligence documentation has been attached. Once finance
department staff has completed its review of a request, the qualified accounts
to be written off will be forwarded to the city clerk then presented to mayor
and city council for final approval. (Ord. 2014-04, 7-8-2014)
CHAPTER 23
DEPARTMENT OF MARKETING AFFAIRS
SECTION:
1-23-1: Establishment
1-23-2: Agency; Appointment
1-23-3: Agency; Powers And Duties
1-23-1:  ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the Department of Marketing Affairs within the City of
Tombstone. Said department shall contract an agency of marketing with the
approval of the mayor and city council deem appropriate. The city clerk shall
establish a separate line item in the budget for the department of marketing
affairs and fund it with money authorized by the mayor and city council, or
otherwise not prohibited, by state law for the promotion, advertising and
general marketing of the City of Tombstone. (Ord. 2019-04, 9-10-2019)
1-23-2: AGENCY; APPOINTMENT:
The Agency shall serve as the chief operating officer of the department and
serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The agency shall be appointed
by the mayor, by and with the consent of the city council. Compensation for the
agency appointed shall be negotiated by the mayor and approved by the council
based on the needs of the city and funds available. (Ord. 2019-04, 9-10-2019)
1-23-3:  AGENCY; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The duties and powers of the Agency shall be as follows:
A.   Organize a short-term and long-term marketing campaign and work with
special events for, and on behalf of, the City of Tombstone;
B.   Administer the city programs and identify cooperative agreements with
other governmental entities and not-for-profit organizations that directly or
indirectly promote Tombstone;
C.   Promote city historical and cultural events, festivals and concerts;
D.   Report to the mayor and city council on a monthly basis updates on the
following:
   1.   Research events and affairs that have a likelihood of promoting
Tombstone and increasing the tourist trade and monitoring the success of those
events and make recommendations thereto based on the research;
   2.   Survey and assess the assets and resources within the city that may be
used for the promotion of Tombstone;
   3.   Identify, create and promote policies and programs in support of
expanding the use of each of Tombstone’s assets and to promote economic
development of the city and enrich the quality of life of its citizens;
   4.   Advise the mayor and city council on any cooperative agreements with
other governmental entities and not-for-profit organizations that directly or
indirectly promote Tombstone;
   5.   Develop procedures and practices that will assure both the appropriate
evaluation of such projects and the monitoring of expenditures;
   6.   Research and apply for grants available to promote the City of
Tombstone;
   7.   Negotiate sponsorships for cultural and historical activities and for
promotion of Tombstone tourism, and to execute resulting sponsorship agreements
on behalf of the city. Terms of such agreements may include, without
limitations, identification of a sponsor on city promotional materials and web
sites. The agency shall work with the city attorney on the wording of any such
agreements; and
   8.   The agency shall publish an annual report on or before May 1 of each
year detailing the department’s budget and programs, as well as the award of
any grants and the use of the money obtained from those grants. (Ord. 2019-04,
9-10-2019)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Historic Preservation Commission Established
2-1-2: Duties And Meetings
2-1-3: Historic Preservation Inspector
2-1-4: Administrative Rules And Procedures
2-1-5: Annual Report
2-1-6: Attendance At Training Sessions
2-1-7: Criteria For Designation Of Historic Preservation Districts Or To Rezone
A Property As A Landmark
2-1-8: Procedures For Nomination And Designation Of Landmarks Or Historic
Preservation Districts
2-1-9: Conflict Clause
2-1-10: Severance Clause
2-1-1: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There is hereby established the Historic Preservation Commission (HPC),
which shall consist of seven (7) members, all of whom shall have a demonstrated
interest, experience or knowledge in at least one of the following: history,
architectural history, architecture, historic interiors, historic architecture,
planning archaeology, historic archaeology, real estate, historic preservation
or conservation, law, or another historic preservation or conservation related
field. All HPC members must have a known and demonstrated interest, competence,
or knowledge in historic preservation within the City and/or the County. The
membership of the commission shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the Common Council, and shall include a member of the Common Council and six
(6) members appointed at large. The Chairperson of the HPC shall be appointed
by the Mayor and approved by the Common Council.
   B.   The terms of all members of the HPC shall be for three (3) years, and
the terms shall be staggered so that two (2) seats are up for reappointment
each year. The Council representative may serve a term which coincides with the
Council term, and shall only vote when a tie has occurred. Vacancies on the
commission shall be filled within ninety (90) days, by appointment by the Mayor
and Common Council, upon recommendation from the Historic Preservation
Commission. Any member may resign by submitting a letter of intent to the HPC
that has been read into the official HPC minutes and forwarded to the Mayor.
The City Council may terminate any HPC member upon cause after an appropriate
hearing or upon the absence of over fifty percent (50%) of the scheduled HPC
meetings within a calendar year. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-2: DUTIES AND MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: The Historic Preservation Commission shall meet at least
monthly, but meetings may be held at any time on the written request of any two
(2) of the commission members or on the call of the Chairman or the Mayor.
   B.   Minimum: A quorum shall consist of a minimum of four (4) members.
Emergency or special meetings may be called at the discretion of the Chairman.
   C.   Powers, Duties And Responsibilities: Subject to State law and the
procedures prescribed herein, the City of Tombstone Historic Preservation
Commission shall have and may exercise the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary for the conduct of its
business.
      2.   Adopt criteria for the identification of significant historic,
architectural and cultural landmarks and for the delineation of historic
preservation districts.
      3.   Authorize a licensed surveyor to conduct surveys of significant
historic, architectural and cultural landmarks and historic preservation
districts within the City.
      4.   Recommend to the City Council that properties be designated
landmarks or historic preservation districts, subject to the procedures and
requirements of this chapter as well as title 10,
chapter 19 of this Code.
      5.   Recommend to the City Council structures that appear to require
protection and preservation as well as the historic and cultural significance
of structures within the Tombstone Historic Preservation District and
historical and cultural landmarks in accordance with title 10,
chapter 19 of this Code.
      6.   Recommend to the City Council to accept on behalf of the City
government of the donation of facade easements and development rights;
recommend to the City Council concerning the acquisition of facade easement or
other interests in real property as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
      7.   Recommend to the City Council means to increase public awareness of
the value of historic, cultural and architectural preservation by developing
and participating in public education programs.
      8.   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the utilization
of State, Federal or private funds to promote the preservation of landmarks and
historic preservation districts within the City.
      9.   Recommend acquisition of landmark structures by the City where their
preservation is essential to the purposes of this chapter and where private
preservation is not feasible, and where either imminent demolition is pending,
or required maintenance of said structures according to City.
      10.   Approve or disapprove of applications for certificates of
appropriateness pursuant to Federal, State and local laws.
      11.   Approve or disapprove of applications for permits pursuant to title
10,
chapter 19 of this Code.
      12.   Recommend to the City Council means to advise and assist owners of
landmarks or historic structures on physical and financial aspects of
preservation, renovation, rehabilitation, and reuse.
      13.   Recommend to the City Council ways to protect and enhance
Tombstone's attractiveness to visitors, tourists, and residents and serve as an
important support and stimulus to business and industry.
      14.   Recommend to the City Council ways to stabilize and/or improve
property values, and protect existing preservation of investment involving the
restoration and historic resources.
      15.   Identify and report to the historic preservation inspector
structures that appear to require maintenance, preservation or a potential code
violation within the Historic District. All questions related to Historic
Preservation Code from the general public, i.e., signage, paint colors,
construction issues, etc., must be directed to the historic preservation
inspector.
      16.   Recommend to the City Council ways to strengthen the economy of
Tombstone in a manner that embraces its historical significance.
      17.   Recommend to the City Council ways to promote the use of historic
landmarks for the education and welfare of the residents of Tombstone. (Ord.
2018-01, 9-11-2018)
2-1-3: HISTORIC PRESERVATION INSPECTOR:
The Mayor and Common Council, on recommendation of the Historic Preservation
Commission, shall appoint a historic preservation inspector for a term of three
(3) years. He or she shall attend all meetings of the Historic Preservation
Commission, and shall be empowered to carry out provisions of the Historic
Preservation Zoning Code, including answering questions from the general
community concerning, but not limited to, signage, paint colors, construction
issues, etc., and reporting his or her findings to both the Historic
Preservation Commission and the City building inspector. (Ord. 2018-01, 9-11-
2018)
2-1-4: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The HPC shall adopt administrative rules and procedures, approved by the Mayor
and Common Council, to govern its own organization, deliberations and
interrelationships with other boards, commissions, departments, and entities
within the City of Tombstone and consistent with this Code, State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO) and the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA)
(16 USC section 470 et seq.). The administrative rules and procedures shall
include the use of "Robert's Rules of Order" at all meetings and for
consideration of any issue submitted to it in accordance with title 10,
chapter 19 of this Code. These administrative rules and procedures shall be
available for inspection by the public. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-5: ANNUAL REPORT:
The Historic Preservation Commission shall prepare and submit annually, no
later than May 1, to the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Tombstone a
written annual report, containing, but not necessarily limited to, minutes of
meetings, decisions made, special projects and activities undertaken, the
number and types of cases reviewed, updated resumes of commission members, and
member attendance records. The HPC shall also submit an itemized estimate of
its contemplated expenditures for the ensuing year, showing the amount proposed
to be expended. The Mayor and Council shall make an appropriation for financing
the commission's expenditure, in such an amount as the Mayor and Council may
deem necessary and appropriate. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-6: ATTENDANCE AT TRAINING SESSIONS:
The city of Tombstone shall encourage members from the historic preservation
commission to attend workshops, seminars, and other training sessions sponsored
by the state historic preservation office, and shall, whenever possible, pay
the fees for such attendance, and reimburse members for necessary related
travel expenses. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-7: CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS OR TO REZONE
A PROPERTY AS A LANDMARK:
   A.   The commission may recommend to the city council that an individual
property be rezoned to the landmarks preservation overlay district if it meets
one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Possesses significant historical, architectural and/or aesthetic
interest to the community; and is at least fifty (50) years old.
      2.   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic or social history of
the city of Tombstone, the Southwest region, the state of Arizona, and/or the
United States.
      3.   Embodies distinguishing characteristics of an architectural type or
specimen.
      4.   Serves as an identification with a person(s) who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the city of Tombstone,
surrounding territories, or state of Arizona.
      5.   Serves as an identification as the work of an artist, architect,
craftsperson, or master builder whose individual work has influenced the
development and culture of the city of Tombstone, or otherwise stands as a
significant or unique contribution to that cultural heritage.
      6.   Has been rehabilitated to preserve its architectural characteristics
and has complied with the standards for rehabilitation, as outlined in the
"secretary of the interior's standards for rehabilitation".
      7.   Has been rehabilitated in terms of its architectural and historic
integrity thereby making it a more compatible building for the benefit of a
historic preservation district.
      8.   Has undergone an addition(s), where the addition harmonizes and is
compatible with the character of the original historic building and derives its
character from that structure, and is otherwise subordinate in building area,
scale, frontage, and height to the original structure.
      9.   Has been listed on the national register of historic places.
   B.   The commission may recommend to the city council that a group of
properties be designated as a historic preservation district if it:
      1.   Contains several properties, a majority of which meet one or more of
the criteria for designation of a landmark.
      2.   Constitutes a distinct section of the city by reason of possessing
qualities associated with the designation of historic landmarks.
   C.   The commission may make such recommendations to the city council only
upon completion of the procedures listed in the following sections. (Ord. 2015-
01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-8: PROCEDURES FOR NOMINATION AND DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS OR HISTORIC
PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
   A.   Any application for designation or expansion of a historic preservation
district or landmark shall be filed with the HPC on prescribed forms and shall
include the following data:
      1.   Name and address of property owner(s) and assessor's parcel number
(s) and address(es) of property(ies) being nominated;
      2.   Description of the proposed landmark or district, including special
aesthetic, cultural, architectural, archaeological, or engineering interest or
value of a historic nature, including information about the architecture,
notable features, construction, and other information indicating the historical
significance of the site or district;
      3.   Approximate date of construction of the property(ies) or time period
of construction within the district;
      4.   Boundaries of the proposed landmark or district;
      5.   Current sketches, photographs, or drawings;
      6.   Statement of condition of any structures;
      7.   Explanation of any known threats to the improvement on the site;
      8.   Other information which may be requested by the community
development department;
      9.   Signature(s) of owner(s) of nominated property(ies) for landmark
designation. District designations may submit a petition pursuant to subsection
B of this section.
   B.   If only one property is included in the proposed preservation district,
that property owner must consent to inclusion in the preservation district. If
more than one property owner is included in the proposed preservation district,
consent of a majority of property owners of record within the boundaries of the
proposed district, based on linear street frontage, must be submitted to the
historic preservation commission before final inclusion of the district is
accepted. Such support shall be ascertained by a survey by the commission of
said property owners, or by written consent of fifty one percent (51%) of the
property owners within the district, based on street frontage.
   C.   Any property owner may initiate an application for designation of his/
her property or a structure or landscape feature as a historic preservation
landmark by submitting a written request for such designation with the
application and data required under subsection A of this section.
   D.   The historic preservation commission, the planning and zoning
commission, or the city council may initiate an application as described
herein.
   E.   Notice of a proposed designation shall be sent by first class mail to
the owner(s) of each property proposed for designation, describing the property
proposed and announcing a public hearing by the historic preservation
commission to consider the designation. Notice shall also be published in a
newspaper of general circulation at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date
of the public hearing. Once the historic preservation commission has issued
notice of a proposed designation, no building permits shall be issued by the
building division for the subject structure or within the subject area until
the historic preservation commission has made its decision.
   F.   A public hearing shall be held before the historic preservation
commission, whereby the commission shall consider designating the boundaries of
the proposed historic preservation district or identifying and designating the
proposed historic landmark(s). The historic preservation commission shall give
notice regarding the public hearing on the application in accordance with the
requirements listed above.
   G.   The historic preservation commission shall review the application and
the testimony presented in the public hearing and shall render a decision at
the conclusion of, or within thirty (30) days after the public hearing in the
form of a written recommendation to the city council and to the planning and
zoning commission.
   H.   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the historic preservation
commission, the planning and zoning commission shall conduct a public hearing
at which the property owner, parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. After such public hearing the planning and zoning
commission shall make a report and recommendation to the city council.
   I.   Upon receipt of the recommendations from the historic preservation
commission and the planning and zoning commission, the city council shall
conduct the public hearing wherein it shall review the proposed application and
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission and historic preservation
commission and shall adopt the recommendations, modify the recommendations,
deny the application, or remand the application to the planning and zoning
commission or the historic preservation commission for further proceedings.
   J.   Designation of landmarks or historic preservation districts by the city
council shall be shown on the official city of Tombstone zoning map. (Ord.
2015-01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-9: CONFLICT CLAUSE:
If any other provisions of this code, or other pertinent codes or regulations,
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
2-1-10: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable and if any section,
sentence, clause, portion or phrase of this chapter shall for any reason be
held to be invalid, illegal or unconstitutional, such decision or determination
shall not affect the validity or legality of the remaining sections, sentences,
clauses, portions or phrases of this chapter, but they shall remain in full
force and effect, it being the legislative intent of the mayor and council that
this chapter shall stand notwithstanding the invalidity of any part thereof.
(Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
CHAPTER 2
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Library Established
2-2-2: Library Board Of Trustees
2-2-3: Board Powers And Duties
2-2-4: Annual Report
2-2-5: Violations
2-2-6: Library Funds
2-2-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The city of Tombstone shall maintain a public library for use of the general
public, including nonresidents as required by the county library district
agreement. The council shall include in the annual budget an amount sufficient
to provide for the staff, operation and maintenance of the library during the
fiscal year. (Ord. 6-1990, 10-8-1990)
2-2-2: LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
Membership shall consist of five (5) trustees. The trustees shall hold office
for three (3) years from July 1 in the year of their appointment unless sooner
removed for cause. It is preferred that all members shall be electors of the
city, but in the event vacancies cannot be filled with electors of the city,
two (2) members may be chosen from outlying areas provided that their mailing
address is Tombstone. The office shall be honorary and without compensation.
Trustees are appointed by the mayor and common council. (Ord. 2009-04, 12-8-
2009)
2-2-3: BOARD POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The trustees shall have charge of the library and all library property.
They shall meet on the first Tuesday of each month for business purposes and at
such other times as needed. They shall elect a president, president pro tem and
secretary. To hold meetings, an agenda must be provided and posted by the city
twenty four (24) hours prior to the meeting. The agenda must include such items
as old and new business. Specific items under old and new business must be
listed. There shall be a call to the public for comments, but there is no legal
requirement. These comments may be rescheduled for a later meeting agenda.
   B.   All meetings shall comply with Arizona's open meeting laws.
   C.   The president shall preside over the meetings and perform the duties as
generally accepted under "Robert's Rules Of Order".
   D.   The president pro tem shall conduct the meetings in the absence of the
president.
   E.   The secretary shall keep minutes and submit to the board and city
council each month. These minutes shall contain:
      1.   The date, time and place of meeting.
      2.   The members either present or absent at the meeting.
      3.   A general description of all actions proposed, discussed, or taken
and the names of members who propose each motion.
      4.   In the event that matters not on the agenda were discussed or
decided at a meeting because of an actual emergency, the minutes must contain a
statement setting forth the reasons necessitating the discussion or decision
without the matter being placed on the agenda. Except for executive sessions,
the minutes must be open to public inspection no later than three (3) working
days after the meeting.
   F.   The board may:
      1.   Draft and recommend to the city council rules, regulations, policies
and procedures for the library and bylaws for the library board.
      2.   Advise and assist the librarian in the planning of the annual budget
and review such budget from time to time.
      3.   Recommend salary of the librarian and such other assistants or
employees as may be necessary, based on performance and experience.
      4.   Exercise and administer any trust(s) declared or created for the
library.
      5.   Monitor the purchase of necessary books, journals, publications and
other library materials.
      6.   Issue a policy of the library which may include, but not be limited
to, hours of operations, circulation policy, issuance of library cards, and
collection policy.
      7.   Take all necessary action for the care, control, management and
improvement of the library.
      8.   Interview applicants for librarian or library aide and recommend the
individual chosen to mayor and council. (Ord. 2009-04, 12-8-2009)
2-2-4: ANNUAL REPORT:
The librarian, on or before the first Monday of August each year, shall make a
report to the board and city council containing:
   A.   A full statement of all property and money received, where derived and
how used.
   B.   The number of books, journals and other publications on hand, the
number added by gift, purchase or otherwise during the year, the number lost or
missing and the number and kind of those loaned.
   C.   Such other statistics, information and suggestions as may be of general
interest. (Ord. 6-1990, 10-8-1990)
2-2-5: VIOLATIONS:
In accordance with this ordinance, it is unlawful for any person to injure,
harm, destroy, burn, deface or steal any library property or books.
   A.   The city may pass additional ordinances for the protection of the
library and library property and impose penalties for punishment of persons
committing injury to the library or its property or books, or for the failure
to return a book or books or other library property.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction be punished pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes 13-1802 and 13-
1602. (Ord. 6-1990, 10-8-1990)
2-2-6: LIBRARY FUNDS:
   A.   All money received for library purposes except for the library gift
fund, shall be paid to the city.
   B.   The library may receive, hold or dispose of gifts in a manner which
will best promote the uses of the library. (Ord. 6-1990, 10-8-1990)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Terms Of Membership
2-3-4: Officers
2-3-5: Compensation
2-3-6: Organization And Rules
2-3-7: Records And Reports
2-3-8: Powers And Duties
2-3-9: Master Plan
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
A city planning and zoning commission (hereinafter referred to as the
commission) is hereby established to aid and advise the common council in
planning and zoning for the growth, development, improvement, restoration and
beautification of the community. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The commission shall consist of seven (7) voting members to be
appointed by the common council. One of the members shall be the city planning
director.
   B.   All members shall reside within three (3) miles of the Tombstone city
limits. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-3: TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The term of the planning director shall correspond to his term of
appointive office.
   B.   The terms of each of the other members first appointed to the
commission shall be: two (2) to serve from date of appointment until January
1973; two (2) to serve from date of appointment until January 1974; two (2) to
serve from date of appointment until January 1975; thereafter terms shall be
for three (3) years and shall extend until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   C.   The common council may remove members without cause.
   D.   Three (3) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular
or special meeting of the commission shall be grounds for termination of
appointment at the will and pleasure of the common council, without the
necessity of a hearing or notice, and such action shall be final.
   E.   Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   The mayor shall appoint a chairman who will be approved by the common
council.
   B.   The commission shall elect a vice chairman from among its members.
   C.   The chairman shall have the power to administer oaths and to take
evidence.
   D.   The vice chairman shall perform the duties of the chairman during the
absence or disability of the chairman. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-5: COMPENSATION:
Commission members shall serve as such without compensation, except that they
may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with duties of
their office upon authorization by the commission and prior approval by the
common council. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-6: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   The commission shall meet not less than once each month, and each
January shall hold an annual meeting for the review of its activities and
accomplishments. All meetings of the commission shall be public meetings. The
commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business,
these to be set forth in its bylaws.
   B.   Four (4) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for
transacting business. Four (4) favorable votes of the commission members shall
be required for taking official action including, but not limited to, the
adopting of policy or submitting recommendations. In this connection, the
minutes of the meeting shall reflect the "ayes" and "nos" cast on a particular
measure and shall reflect the vote of each member present. A member may abstain
from voting only upon a declaration that he has a conflict of interest.
   C.   No member shall act as agent for or represent anyone in any matter
coming before the common council, the city planning and zoning commission or
the city board of adjustment, pertaining to the use of land and buildings for
any purpose, together with any incidental activities associated therewith or on
other matters commonly known as "planning and zoning". No member shall vote on
or participate in the commission's discussions of any matter in which he has a
financial interest, whether direct or indirect. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-7: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   The official records of the commission shall include bylaws, minutes of
meetings, resolutions, and its adopted reports, which shall be deposited in the
office of the city clerk and which shall be available for inspection during
customary office hours.
   B.   The commission shall submit to the common council such special reports
as may be requested, and an annual report each December, setting forth the
state and progress of its work and such other information as the common council
may desire. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall undertake and carry out comprehensive studies and
surveys of physical, social and economic conditions of the community as may be
necessary to continuously advise the common council on matters of planning and
zoning for the growth, development, restoration and beautification of the city.
It shall consider present conditions, problems and potential and desirable
changes in the community and recommend to the common council programs, plans,
standards, administrative procedures, and means of coordination with the county
and other governmental agencies.
   B.   Within the limits of the funds available such studies, surveys and
recommendations shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Formulation, adoption and amendment of a long range comprehensive
master plan, and recommendations of adoption or amendment by the common
council;
      2.   Investigations, maps, reports, rules, regulations, policies,
ordinances, plans and dissemination of public information which in the opinion
of the commission are necessary or desirable to carry out the master plan;
      3.   Formulation of zoning regulations and zoning maps and amendments
thereto and recommendations of adoption by the common council;
      4.   Formulation of land subdivision regulations and amendments thereto
and recommendations of adoption by the common council;
      5.   Capital improvements program and capital budget designed to provide
for needed community facilities and services in accordance with the master plan
and recommendation of adoption by the common council;
      6.   Review of proposals for annexation and recommendations to common
council.
   C.   The commission shall be responsible for assisting the common council
and the city staff in preparation of programs for public works improvements and
for the financing thereof, and for such other administrative procedures and
regulations as may, in its opinion, provide effective means for furthering the
objectives of the master plan.
   D.   The commission shall promote public interest in and understanding of
the studies and plans it prepares and, to that end, may publish and distribute
copies of the master plan or any reports relative thereto, and may employ such
other means of publicity and public information as it may determine with prior
approval of the common council.
   E.   The commission shall consult and advise with public officials and
agencies, public utilities, civic, educational, professional, and other
organizations, and with citizens in relation to the preparation of plans and
the implementation thereof.
   F.   The commission shall be and act as the zoning commission of the city
and shall exercise all duties and powers granted to a zoning commission by
state law. (Ord. 2010-04, 5-11-2010)
2-3-9: MASTER PLAN:
   A.   The master plan shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A statement of goals and policies for growth, development,
improvement, restoration and beautification of the community;
      2.   A statement of assumptions and projections of change which may occur
during the next ten (10) to twenty (20) years;
      3.   A plan for land use, highway and transportation facilities, and for
the location and extent of community facilities;
      4.   General recommendations for implementing the master plan.
   B.   The master plan shall be prepared for the general purpose of guiding
and accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious development of the city, which
will, in accordance with present and future needs and resources, best promote
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of
the citizens, and shall pertain to the total incorporated area of the city and
any land outside the city which, in the opinion of the commission, bears
relation to the planning of the city.
   C.   The master plan shall be updated every five (5) years and, after
approval of the common council, submitted to the proper state agencies. (Ord.
2010-04, 5-11-2010)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment
2-4-2: Membership
2-4-3: Terms Of Membership
2-4-4: Officers
2-4-5: Compensation
2-4-6: Organization And Rules
2-4-7: Records And Reports
2-4-8: Powers
2-4-9: Duties
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
A zoning board of adjustment and appeals (hereinafter referred to as the board)
is hereby established to aid and advise the mayor and common council in an
equitable, effective and judicial administration and enforcement of the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The board shall consist of five (5) voting members to be appointed by
the mayor and to be approved by a majority of the common council.
   B.   All members shall be electors of the city.
   C.   There is no intent in this section of barring any member of the
planning and zoning commission or member of any other municipal board,
committee or officer from serving on the board, provided the individual meets
the membership requirements of this section. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-3: TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The terms of members first appointed to the board shall be: Two (2) to
serve from date of appointment until January 1973, two (2) to serve from date
of appointment until January 1974, and one to serve from date of appointment
until January 1975; thereafter terms shall be for three (3) years and shall
extend until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   B.   The common council may remove members without cause.
   C.   Three (3) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular
or special meeting of the board shall be grounds for termination of appointment
at the will and pleasure of the common council, without the necessity of a
hearing or notice, and such action shall be final.
   D.   Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the unexpired term.
(Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   The board, at its first meeting shall elect a chairman and vice
chairman from among its members to serve until January 1973, and at that time
and every January thereafter, a similar election shall be held.
   B.   The board shall also elect a secretary who need not be a member of the
board but whose term of office shall be the same as that of the chairman and
vice chairman.
   C.   The chairman shall have the power to administer oaths and to take
evidence.
   D.   The vice chairman shall perform the duties of the chairman during the
absence or disability of the chairman.
   E.   Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the unexpired term
by a new election. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Board members shall serve as such without compensation, except that
they may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with duties
of their office upon authorization by the board and prior approval by the
common council.
   B.   If the secretary is not a member of the board, his compensation shall
be established by the common council. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-6: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   The board shall meet not less than once each month, and each January
shall hold an annual meeting for the review of its activities and
accomplishments. All meetings of the board shall be public meetings. The board
shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business, these to be
set forth in its bylaws.
   B.   Three (3) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for
transacting business. Three (3) favorable votes of the board members shall be
required for taking official action including, but not limited to, the
authorizing variances or submitting recommendations. In this connection the
minutes of the meeting shall reflect the "ayes" and "noes" cast on a particular
measure and shall reflect the vote of each member present. A member may abstain
from voting only upon a declaration that he has a conflict of interest.
   C.   No member shall act as agent for or represent anyone in any matter
coming before the common council, the city planning and zoning commission or
the zoning board of adjustment and appeals pertaining to the use of land and
buildings for any purpose, together with any incidental activities associated
therewith or on other matters commonly known as "zoning". No member shall vote
on or participate in the board's discussions of any matter in which he has a
financial interest, whether direct or indirect. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-7: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   The official records of the board shall include its bylaws, minutes of
meetings, recommendations and adopted reports, which shall be deposited in the
office of the city clerk and which shall be available for public inspection
during customary office hours. Any finding, ruling or decision of the board
relating to the zoning ordinance, shall be fully reported in the board's
minutes.
   B.   The board shall submit to the common council such special reports as
may be requested, and an annual report each December, setting forth the state
and progress of its work and such other information as the common council may
desire. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
2-4-8: POWERS:
The authority of the board shall extend only to interpretation of the zoning
ordinance and to the granting of variances and to the adjustment of regulations
to overcome practical difficulties and prevent unnecessary hardship in the
application of this chapter.
The board of adjustment and appeals shall have the power to:
   A.   Interpret the zoning ordinance when the meaning of any word or phrase
of a section is in doubt, when there is dispute as to such meaning between the
appellant and the enforcing officer, or when the location of a zone boundary is
in doubt; such interpretation may be made after consultation with other boards
in a said county for purposes of uniformity.
   B.   Allow the extension of a zone where the boundary line thereof divides a
lot in one ownership.
   C.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there
is error in any order, requirement, decision, grant or refusal made by the
zoning inspector in the enforcement of the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Allow a reduction of building site area and yard requirements where, in
its judgment the shape of the building site, topography, the location of
existing buildings or other conditions make a strict compliance with said
regulations impossible without practical difficulty or hardship; but in no
case, except as hereinafter provided, shall these regulations be reduced in
such manner as to violate the intent and purpose of the zoning ordinance.
   E.   On recommendation of the planning and zoning commission, to authorize a
variance of area requirements for portions of a new subdivision presented to
the planning and zoning commission for its approval, where because of special
problems of terrain and topography, it is economically unfeasible and
physically impractical to enforce the minimum area requirements of the zone
applied to said subdivision, provided the total substance areas do not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the area of said subdivision.
   F.   Allow the construction of commercial buildings with sidewalks, arcades
or similar architectural features where such constructions require variances of
front yard regulations and are in conformity with a general architectural plan
applicable to the entire frontage of a block or where such construction would
permit the widening of the adjacent street or thoroughfare.
   G.   Permit in any zone such modification of the requirements of the zoning
ordinance as said board may deem necessary to secure an appropriate development
of a building site, where adjacent to such site there are buildings or uses
that do not conform to regulations prescribed by the zoning ordinance for the
zone in which these buildings or uses are located.
   H.   Authorize the temporary use of a building or premises in any zone for a
purpose or use that does not conform to the regulations of the zoning
ordinance, provided that such use be of a true temporary nature and does not
involve the erection of substantial buildings. Such permit shall be in the form
of a temporary and revocable permit for not more than a nine (9) month period,
subject to such conditions as will safeguard the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare. This section does not apply to the use of a
house trailer in any residence zone where the use of such trailers for
permanent residential purposes is prohibited. (Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
   I.   Grant a variance or conditional variance for stabling or domiciling
animals and fowl in subdivided portions of the city in which the zoning
ordinance does not include the some under "uses permitted". The application for
such a variance shall be submitted as set forth in subsection
10-16-1D of this code. (Ord. 75-76-01, 9-15-1975)
2-4-9: DUTIES:
In addition to those duties heretofore enumerated, the board will comply with
instructions pertaining to its mission as set forth in title 10,
chapter 16, "Variances", and
chapter 18, "Amendments", of this code, of zoning ordinance 168 as amended.
(Ord. 09-71-72, 3-20-1972)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Established
2-5-2: Officers
2-5-3: Organization And Rules
2-5-4: Records
2-5-5: Powers And Duties
2-5-1: ESTABLISHED:
In compliance with section 23, article X, of the charter of the city, a board
of police commissioners (hereinafter referred to as the board) is hereby
established, which shall consist of six (6) members: the mayor, four (4)
councilmen and the marshal. (1972 Code)
2-5-2: OFFICERS:
   A.   The mayor shall be the chairman of the board.
   B.   The board shall elect a vice chairman from among its members.
   C.   The city clerk is ex officio clerk of the board. (1972 Code)
2-5-3: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   The board shall meet not less than once each month and all meetings of
the board shall be public meetings.
   B.   The board shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business.
   C.   Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for transacting
business.
   D.   Four (4) favorable votes of the board members shall be required to
determine any question pertaining to the regulation of the police department.
(1972 Code)
2-5-4: RECORDS:
   A.   The official records of the board shall include minutes of its
meetings, rules and regulations pertaining to the conduct of its business, and
all adopted rules and regulations pertaining to the police department.
   B.   The official records of the board shall be deposited in the office of
the city clerk and shall be available for public inspection during customary
office hours. (1972 Code)
2-5-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall have the power to appoint as many regular and special
policemen as may be necessary, to regulate the same and to dismiss from the
police force at any time any member thereof.
   B.   The board shall have the power to and shall make such rules and
regulations as are necessary for the proper regulation of the police
department. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-6-1: Establishment
2-6-2: Membership
2-6-3: Terms Of Membership
2-6-4: Officers
2-6-5: Compensation
2-6-6: Organization And Rules
2-6-7: Records And Reports
2-6-8: Powers And Duties
2-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Tombstone recreation board (hereinafter referred to as the board) is hereby
created to aid and advise the mayor and common council in the establishment and
execution of an effective recreational program for the citizens of and the
visitors to, Tombstone. (1972 Code)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The board shall consist of seven (7) voting members to be appointed by
the mayor and approved by the common council.
   B.   All members shall be electors of the city.
   C.   There is no intent in this section from barring any member of any other
municipal commission, board, committee, or officer from serving on the board,
provided the individual meets the membership requirements of this section.
(1972 Code)
2-6-3: TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The terms of members first appointed to the board shall be: Two (2) to
serve from date of appointment until January 1973, two (2) to serve from date
of appointment until January 1974, three (3) to serve from date of appointment
until January 1975; thereafter terms shall be for three (3) years and shall
extend until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   B.   The common council may remove members without cause.
   C.   Three (3) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular
or special meeting of the board shall be grounds for termination of appointment
at the will and pleasure of the common council, without the necessity of a
hearing or notice, and such action shall be final.
   D.   Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the unexpired term.
(1972 Code)
2-6-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   The board at its first meeting shall elect a chairman and vice chairman
from among its members to serve until January 1973, and at that time and every
January thereafter, a similar election shall be held.
   B.   The board shall also elect a secretary who need not be a member of the
board but whose term of office shall be the same as that of the chairman and
vice chairman.
   C.   Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the unexpired term
by a new election. (1972 Code)
2-6-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Board members shall serve as such without compensation, except that
they may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with duties
of their office upon authorization by the board and prior approval by the
common council.
   B.   If the secretary is not a member of the board, his compensation shall
be established by the common council. (1972 Code)
2-6-6: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
   A.   The board shall meet not less than once each month, and each January
shall hold an annual meeting for the review of its activities and
accomplishments. All meetings of the board shall be public meetings. The board
shall adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business, these to be
set forth in its bylaws.
   B.   Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum for transacting
business. Four (4) favorable votes of the board members shall be required for
taking official action including, but not limited to, submitting
recommendations. (1972 Code)
2-6-7: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   The official records of the board shall include its bylaws, minutes of
meetings, reports, findings and recommendations, which shall be deposited in
the office of the city clerk and which shall be available for public inspection
during customary office hours.
   B.   The board shall submit to the common council such special reports as
may be requested, and an annual report each December, setting forth the state
and progress of its work and such other information as the common council may
desire. (1972 Code)
2-6-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The board shall formulate plans for a comprehensive recreational
program for the people of Tombstone and the visitors to the city. These plans
shall provide for the children, teenagers, young and mature adults.
   B.   In the formulation of its plans the board shall consider the
utilization of the city swimming pool, the city park, the Miller spring picnic
area, land in park and any other municipal facility and property. It shall also
consider the utilization of school property as well as private property.
   C.   Coordination with municipal officials, school officials, civic, social
and religious organizations and citizens is authorized and encouraged.
   D.   Recommendations for activating recreational programs shall be submitted
to the common council through the mayor.
   E.   Recommendations for capital outlay for development of facilities shall
be submitted to the common council through the planning and zoning commission.
   F.   Recommendations may be submitted for implementing portions of plans
without waiting for completion of an entire plan. Such action is desirable if a
connection between a portion of a plan and the entire plan can be shown. (1972
Code)
CHAPTER 7
FIREMENS' RELIEF AND PENSION FUND BOARD
SECTION:
2-7-1: Board Established
2-7-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a firefighter's relief and pension fund board,
which board shall consist of the mayor, fire chief, four (4) members elected
from the fire department and one lay member appointed by the mayor and council.
The trustees shall serve such terms and perform such duties as provided in
Arizona Revised Statutes 9-954. (Ord. 8-1996, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 8
AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Creation
2-8-2: Number And Composition Of Voting Members
2-8-3: Terms Of Office
2-8-4: Election Of Chairperson And Vice Chairperson
2-8-5: Duties
2-8-6: Recommendations To Council
2-8-7: Assistance Of City Departments
2-8-8: Meetings
2-8-9: Quorum
2-8-10: Reimbursement And Compensation
2-8-11: Minutes
2-8-12: Constructive Resignation/Absence
2-8-1: CREATION:
The city council of Tombstone does hereby create an airport commission to
advise the city council on promotion, support and enhancement of the Tombstone
Municipal Airport and its operation, so as to deliver the optimum of services
and safety to the users of the airport and the citizens of Tombstone. The
commission shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council and
report to the city council. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-2: NUMBER AND COMPOSITION OF VOTING MEMBERS:
The commission shall consist of five (5) voting members. At least one member
shall be tenants/lessees of the Tombstone Municipal Airport and all members
shall have a working knowledge of aviation matters. Unless, the city council
determines otherwise, all members shall be required to live within thirty (30)
miles of the corporate limits of the city of Tombstone, and shall represent the
general public interest. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-3: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of the members shall be three (3) years on a staggered basis. The
first commission members shall serve the following terms: one member for one
year, two (2) members for two (2) years, and two (2) members for three (3)
years. All members of the commission shall be appointed by the city council.
(Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-4: ELECTION OF CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON:
The commission shall elect a chairperson annually. The chairperson shall
preside at all meetings, set the agenda, preserve order and decide questions of
order. The chairperson shall sign documents of the commission and may call
special meetings. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-5: DUTIES:
The duties of the commission shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   To recommend changes to the city council regarding the operating rules
for the airport;
   B.   To monitor the airport master plan and recommend updates and amendments
thereto;
   C.   To recommend to the city council plans for the regulation of future
growth, development and beautification of the airport and its immediate
environs;
   D.   To review and recommend to the city council proposed land use relating
to leases, fixed base operations;
   E.   To provide recommendations regarding the proper and harmonious use of
lands surrounding the airport;
   F.   To recommend to the city council policies governing annual budgeting,
and rates and fees to be charged all users of the airport;
   G.   To promote, support, and enhance the overall image and benefits of the
airport to airport tenants, users and city residents alike;
   H.   To hear complaints and recommend such resolutions as deemed appropriate
by the majority vote of the commission, however, such decisions may be appealed
to the city council;
   I.   To be watchful for any policies, procedures or operations that affect
the safety of the airport and its operations, and recommend to the city council
that it take immediate action to correct the same to ensure the highest
practical level of safe air navigation;
   J.   To recommend priorities for grant projects that may be available from
state or federal governments for city council for approval;
   K.   The commission shall meet annually or as requested by the city council
to update the council on the commission's activities and to obtain city council
input. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-6: RECOMMENDATIONS TO COUNCIL:
In addition to advising the city council of the requirements and regulations of
the federal aviation administration and the Arizona department of aeronautics,
the commission shall periodically recommend to the city council that it
promulgate such rules and regulations, orders and instructions as are
necessary, in the commission's judgment, based on the prevailing facts and
circumstances. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-7: ASSISTANCE OF CITY DEPARTMENTS:
Upon consent of the mayor, the commission may call on various city departments
for assistance in the performance of the commission's duties, and, as directed
by the mayor, such city departments shall render such assistance to the
commission in a timely manner as may be required. Items designated as safety
issues or hazardous to aviation shall be given the highest priority. (Ord.
2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-8: MEETINGS:
The commission shall hold monthly meetings which shall be open to the public.
The time and place of said meetings shall be posted in accordance with
applicable Arizona state statutes; special meetings may be called by the
chairman on twenty four (24) hour notice. All meetings shall comply with
Arizona's open meeting statutes. The chair of the commission may formulate such
rules with the approval of the majority of the commission that serve to ensure
the efficient and clear operation of the commission's business. (Ord. 2015-05,
10-20-2015)
2-8-9: QUORUM:
A quorum shall consist of at least three (3) members present. Passage of all
motions shall require a simple majority of the members present. (Ord. 2015-05,
10-20-2015)
2-8-10: REIMBURSEMENT AND COMPENSATION:
The members of the commission may be reimbursed by the city for necessary
travel and subsistence expenses, but shall not receive compensation for their
services. Any expense must be approved in advance by the city council or city
clerk. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-11: MINUTES:
City staff shall keep a record of each commission meeting entitled "minutes"
and the minutes shall be retained by the city in accordance with state laws
regarding retention of public records. The commission shall review, amend if
necessary, and approve the minutes of every meeting of the commission. (Ord.
2015-05, 10-20-2015)
2-8-12: CONSTRUCTIVE RESIGNATION/ABSENCE:
A member absent from three (3) regular meetings in a calendar year without
consent of the chairman constitutes the constructive resignation of that
member, and said vacancy shall be filled by the city council. Commissioners
serve at the pleasure of the council, and in addition to removal for
nonattendance a commissioner can be removed by the council at any time, for any
reason. (Ord. 2015-05, 10-20-2015)
TITLE 3
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Adoption Of Building Codes
3-1-2: Construction Of Terms
3-1-3: Conforming With Zoning Ordinance
3-1-4: Adoption Of Electrical Code
3-1-5: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
3-1-6: Building Official; Administrative Authority
3-1-7: Maintenance; Repairs
3-1-8: Plumbing; Heating; Electrical Work
3-1-9: Expiration Of Building Permit
3-1-10: Violations; Penalties
3-1-11: Appeals
3-1-12: Utilities
3-1-13: Adoption Of Dangerous Building Code
3-1-14: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
3-1-15: Manufactured Housing
3-1-16: Fences
3-1-17: Property Maintenance Code
3-1-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES:
The certain codes entitled 2006 international residential code and 2006
international building code, published by the International Code Council, are
hereby adopted as the building codes of the city and made a part hereof as if
said codes were specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three (3)
copies of said codes shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection, as required by law. (Ord. 2007-12, 4-
10-2007)
3-1-2: CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS:
   A.   Whenever the words "a municipality" are used in the building code
adopted by the preceding section, it shall be held to mean this city.
   B.   Whenever the term "corporation counsel" is used in such building code,
it shall be held to mean the city attorney and/or legal advisor for this city.
(Ord., 11-28-1966; amd. 1972 Code)
3-1-3: CONFORMING WITH ZONING ORDINANCE:
Whenever a building permit is issued and a building inspection performed such
building must conform to the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city of
Tombstone in addition to the other provisions required by city ordinance. (Ord.
1-74-75, 8-21-1974)
3-1-4: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
The certain code entitled national electrical code of 1988, copyrighted by the
National Fire Protection Association is hereby adopted as national electrical
code of 1988, and made a part hereof the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three (3) copies of said
code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and kept available for
public use and inspection, as required by law. (Ord. 5-1989, 6-19-1989)
3-1-5: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
The certain code entitled uniform plumbing code, 1988, copyrighted by the
International Association Of Plumbing And Mechanical Officials, 1988, is hereby
adopted as uniform plumbing code, 1988, and made a part hereof the same as
though said code was specifically set forth in full herein and at least three
(3) copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection, as required by law. (Ord. 5-1989, 6-9-
1989)
3-1-6: BUILDING OFFICIAL; ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The building official and administrative authority as such may be referenced in
any section and made a part hereof for all matters pertaining to any buildings,
plumbing, electrical or any other inspections shall be vested in the office of
the clerk; provided that the council may authorize such deputies as needed to
perform any inspection work or other functions that may be required by city
ordinance. (Ord. 1-74-75, 8-21-1974)
3-1-7: MAINTENANCE; REPAIRS:
Anything else to the contrary notwithstanding, all maintenance and repair work
shall be excluded from coverage under the uniform building code, provided that:
   A.   The materials used to replace existing materials are of the same type
and approximate size; so that the maintenance and repair work does not result
in any fundamental construction change.
   B.   That all maintenance work shall be subject to inspection and approval
by the city building inspector when, at his discretion, such inspection is
necessary. (Ord. 174, 6-10-1957; amd. 1972 Code; Ord. 1-74-75, 8-21-1974)
3-1-8: PLUMBING; HEATING; ELECTRICAL WORK:
   A.   All new plumbing, heating and electrical work shall require inspection
and no electrical, gas or water connection by the utility supplying such
commodity shall be made until final approval by the city building inspector.
(Replacement of an existing appliance, switch, control element, and/or
convenient outlet by a similar or newer item that does not place additional
requirements on the supply system is not to be considered new work.)
   B.   All electrical work shall be in conformance with the current adopted
edition of the national electric code.
   C.   All plumbing work shall be in conformance with the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials uniform plumbing code (latest
edition). For additions to existing plumbing the building inspector may
authorize deviations from this code when in his opinion public health and
safety are not jeopardized. (Ord. 174, 6-10-1957; amd. 1972 Code; Ord. 1-74-75,
8-21-1974)
3-1-9: EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT:
Section 302(d), page 30 shall be amended as follows:
      1.   All building permits shall expire six (6) months from the date of
issue, provided however, that upon application to the building inspector with
notice to the city clerk, an extension not to exceed sixty (60) days, the
permit shall expire and become null and void.
(Ord., 11-28-1966; amd. 1972 Code)
3-1-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Section 205, page 21 of the building code shall be amended to include the
following, which shall be in addition to and not in lieu of the penalties
prescribed thereby:
      1.   Any contractor, whether general or subcontractor or individual, who
shall work without a city building permit, or who shall fail to report to the
building inspector when work is completed so as to enable him to make a final
inspection, shall have his city license revoked by the city clerk immediately
upon receipt of notice in writing from the building inspector.
(Ord., 11-28-1966; amd. 1972 Code)
      2.   Any person violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing
to comply with or resisting the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 174, 6-10-1957; amd. 1972 Code)
3-1-11: APPEALS:
An appeal may be made to the board of adjustment and appeals on any matter
involving the interpretation of the intent and purpose of any provision of this
title and the codes adopted hereby. (1972 Code)
3-1-12: UTILITIES:
No utility, except the telephone shall be connected or reconnected or in any
way altered until the building inspector shall give written permission for such
service. (1972 Code)
3-1-13: ADOPTION OF DANGEROUS BUILDING CODE:
The certain code entitled "uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings", 1988, copyrighted by the International Conference of Building
Officials, 1988 is hereby adopted as "uniform dangerous building code, 1988"
and made a part hereof the same as though said code was specifically set forth
in full herein and at least three (3) copies of said code shall be filed in the
office of the city clerk and shall be kept available for public use and
inspection, as required by law. (Ord. 5-1989, 6-19-1989)
3-1-14: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
The certain code entitled uniform mechanical code, 1988 edition, copyrighted by
the International Conference Of Building Officials, 1988, is hereby adopted as
uniform mechanical code, 1988, and made a part hereof the same as though said
code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three (3) copies
of said code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be kept
available for public use and inspection, as required by law. (Ord. 4-1989, 6-
19-1989)
3-1-15: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
   A.   As of the effective date hereof, manufactured housing unit construction
and safety standards adopted by the U.S. department of housing and urban
development (HUD) pursuant to section 7(D), department of housing and urban
development act, 42 USC 3533(D), title VI, housing and community development
act of 1974 (42 USC 5401) and amendments thereto are hereby adopted as
manufactured housing unit construction and safety standards for the city of
Tombstone. (Ord. 3-1988)
   B.   As of the effective date of this section, the building official shall
issue no building permit for the installation of any manufactured housing unit
within the city unless said manufactured housing unit can be proven to comply
with the standards set forth in subsection A of this section and is less than
ten (10) years old. This prohibition shall also apply to any manufactured
housing unit installation permit to be issued for the relation of a
manufactured housing unit within the city. (Ord. 2-1995, 3-28-1995; amd. Ord.
3-1988)
   C.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this ordinance
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the same
shall be treated as a class 3 misdemeanor. Each day such violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
   D.   It shall be the responsibility of the permit applicants to demonstrate
to the building official that any manufactured housing unit for which an
installation permit is requested is in compliance with the standards set forth
in subsection A of this section and is less than ten (10) years old. Proof of
compliance shall include:
      1.   A decal certifying that the manufactured housing unit has been
inspected and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the United
States department of housing.
      2.   Urban development (HUD) in effect at the date of manufacture. Said
date of manufacture shall not be more than ten (10) years prior to the date of
application for the building permit for installation of the manufactured
housing unit. (Ord. 2-1995, 3-28-1995)
3-1-16: FENCES:
The building inspector shall issue no building permit for the installation of
any fence, within the city limits, which is in excess of six feet (6') in
height. (Ord. 4-1996, 7-15-1996)
3-1-17: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
   A.   Adoption: A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the city clerk of the city of Tombstone, being marked and
designated as the international property maintenance code, 2006 edition, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
property maintenance code of the city of Tombstone, in the state of Arizona for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said property
maintenance code on file in the office of the city of Tombstone are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1 Insert: City of Tombstone
      Section 103.5 Insert: Inspection Fees - $25 first quarter hour, $40 per
hour thereafter
      Section 302.4 Insert: Six (6) inches
      Section 304.14 Insert: January 1 through December 31
      Section 602.3 Insert: September 30 through May 1
      Section 602.4 Insert: September 30 through May 1
   C.   Repealing Conflicting Ordinances: All other ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
   D.   Saving Clause: If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
section is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional and such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The mayor
and council hereby declare that it would have passed this section, and each
subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional.
   E.   No Effect On Ongoing Proceedings: Nothing in this section or in the
property maintenance code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act
or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in subsection C of this section; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this section.
   F.   Violations And Penalties: Any owner, responsible party, or other person
having control over a structure or parcel of land who causes, permits,
facilitates, aids or abets any violation of any provision of this section or
who fails to perform any act or duty required by this section is guilty of a
class 3 misdemeanor and is subject to the maximum civil sanction and fine
prescribed by law for each offense, in addition to the costs to abate the
offense. (Ord. 2007-17, 6-12-2007)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC WORKS CODE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Adoption Of Public Works Code
3-2-2: Construction Of Terms
3-2-3: Public Works Official; Administrative Authority
3-2-4: Public Works Permit
3-2-5: Work Orders
3-2-6: Completion Reports
3-2-7: Expiration Of Public Works Permits
3-2-8: Damage To Underground Utilities
3-2-9: Violations; Penalties
3-2-1: ADOPTION OF PUBLIC WORKS CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
clerk of the city, being marked and designated as "uniform standard
specifications for public works construction, sponsored and distributed by the
Mariposa Association of Governments, July 1, 1974, Arizona" be and the same is
hereby adopted as the public works code of the city of Tombstone, except as
amended by a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the clerk of the city, being marked and designated as "city of
Tombstone standard specifications for public improvements, 1975, amendments to
uniform standard specifications for public works construction" and each and all
of the regulations, documental provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
each of said documents are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as if fully set forth in this chapter, except as otherwise set forth in this
chapter. (Ord. 75-76-03, 3-3-1976)
3-2-2: CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS:
   A.   Whenever the words "a municipality" are used in the public works code
adopted by the preceding section, it shall be held to mean this city. Further,
whenever the words "Mariposa County" or "county" are used in the public works
code adopted by the preceding section, it shall be held to mean "Cochise
County"
   B.   Whenever the term "corporation counsel" is used in such public works
code, it shall be held to mean the city attorney and/or legal advisor for the
city.
   C.   Whenever the word "engineer" is used in said public works code, it
shall be held to mean the city engineer.
   D.   The phrase "public works" is any and all work performed on public
thoroughfares, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks,
easements, rights of ways and the entrances thereto or exits therefrom.
   E.   All public work performed shall be regulated and enforced by the
provisions of this code whether performed by the department of public works,
city of Tombstone, a contractor under contract to the city; a real estate
subdivider, a contractor performing work for a subdivider, a public utility, an
individual or company doing work on time and material basis for the city or a
property owner or lessee. (Ord. 75-76-03, 3-3-1976)
3-2-3: PUBLIC WORKS OFFICIAL; ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The public works official and administrative authority as such as may be
referenced in any section and made a part hereof for all matters pertaining to
work on all public thoroughfares shall be vested in the office of the director
of public works. The city engineer shall formulate plans and specifications,
and render the completion report on public works projects, or such other person
or firm as may be designated by the common council for such purpose. (Ord. 4-
78-79, 6-18-1979)
3-2-4: PUBLIC WORKS PERMIT:
   A.   A public works permit shall be issued by the city clerk for public
works other than that performed by the city work force. It shall be the public
works director whom is able to decide and distribute designated parking
privileges. The applicant for a public works permit shall present a set of
scaled drawings depicting the work to be accomplished and the programmed
starting and completion date. The city clerk shall obtain approval of the
engineer to precede pending issuance of a permit hereunder.
   B.   A public works permit shall be issued by the city clerk for reserved
parking privileges requested on a temporary basis by special groups. The
applicant for a public works permit shall submit, to the city clerk, an
application requesting proposed areas to be blocked off along with the starting
and ending date(s) of the event(s). The public works director is granted
discretion for determining the designated area. The public works director shall
submit, in writing, to the city clerk, within five (5) business days, a map
depicting the areas designated for reserved parking and the reserved date(s).
The city clerk then shall provide a copy to the mayor, common council and the
Tombstone marshal's office. (Ord. 2004)
3-2-5: WORK ORDERS:
A public works work order shall be issued for new work to be accomplished on
public thoroughfares by the city work force. Work orders are not required for
the following:
   A.   Maintenance and repair of existing water mains and services.
   B.   New water services.
   C.   Maintenance and repair of the existing surface of thoroughfares.
   D.   Clearing thoroughfares of objectionable vegetation.
   E.   Correction of runoff water drainage.
   F.   Erection and maintenance of street and traffic control signs.
   G.   Marking of centerlines and curbs. (Ord. 75-76-03, 3-3-1976)
3-2-6: COMPLETION REPORTS:
The engineer shall submit completion reports on public works work orders to the
council through the director of public works. He shall submit completion and
acceptance reports on all public works covered by a public works permit to the
party(ies) obtaining the permit with a copy of the same to the council through
the director of public works. (Ord. 4-78-79, 6-18-1979)
3-2-7: EXPIRATION OF PUBLIC WORKS PERMITS:
Public works permits shall expire on the completion date submitted on the
application for a permit by the applicant. The permit becomes null and void
unless an extension has been granted by the engineer. The extension shall
specify a new completion date. (Ord. 75-76-03, 3-3-1976)
3-2-8: DAMAGE TO UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
In order to prevent damage to underground utilities all subdividers,
contractors, utility companies, public works force, city of Tombstone and
individuals shall comply with the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes. (Ord.
75-76-03, 3-3-1976)
3-2-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any subdivider, contractor, whether general or subcontracting, public
utility company, or individual who shall do work on a public thoroughfare in
the city without a public works permit, when required by provisions of this
chapter, or who shall fail to report to the engineer when work is completed so
as to enable him to make a final inspection, is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Any of the above parties who cause damage to the finished surface of a
thoroughfare and fail to restore the surface to its original status, as existed
prior to the commencement of the work, is in violation of this chapter. In the
event they fail to correct the violation in a reasonable period of time, after
notifying of the same, the city work force may make the necessary corrections,
the violator must then reimburse the city an amount to cover the cost of making
the corrections.
   C.   Any person or representative of a subdivider, contractor, or firm
violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with or
resisting the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment not to
exceed six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. A separate offense
shall be deemed to be committed upon each day during which or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 75-76-03, 3-3-1976)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
3-3-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: General Provisions
3-3-4: Administration
3-3-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
3-3-6: Variance Procedure
3-3-7: Conditions For Variances
3-3-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Arizona has in
Arizona Revised Statutes 45-2341 through 45-2345 delegated the responsibility
to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the city
council of the city of Tombstone, Arizona, does ordain as follows.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Tombstone are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and
private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions
designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use
and development of areas of special flood hazards so as to minimize future
flood blight areas;
      7.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazards; and
      8.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards
assume responsibility for their actions.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Loses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application:
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this ordinance or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or VO zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
This area is designated as zone A, AO, AH, and A1-30 on the FIRM.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BREAKAWAY WALLS: Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material which are not part of the structural support of the building
and which are so designed as to breakaway, during the base flood, without
damage to the structural integrity of the building on which they are used or
any structures to which they might be carried by floodwaters.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazards.
EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:
A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile
home lots for rent or sale for which the construction of facilities for
servicing the lot on which the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed before
the effective date of this ordinance.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads, or the construction of streets).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of floodwaters and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source. Flood boundary floodway map is the official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of flood hazard and the
floodway.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The city clerk of the city of Tombstone who is hereby
authorized the floodplain board to administer the provisions of this ordinance.
FLOODPLAIN BOARD: The city council of the city of Tombstone at such times as
they are engaged in the enforcement of this ordinance.
FLOODWAY: The channels of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
The floodway is delineated on the flood boundary floodway map.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
only for storage purposes is not a "habitable floor".
MOBILE HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not include
recreational vehicles or travel trailers. The term includes, but is not limited
to, the definition of "mobile home" as set forth in regulations governing the
mobile home safety and construction standards program (24 CFR 3232.7(a)).
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of this ordinance.
NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for rent or sale
for which the construction of facilities or servicing the lot (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed on or
after the effective date of this ordinance.
PERSON: Any individual or his agent, firm partnership, association,
corporation, or agent of the aforementioned groups or the state or any agency
or political subdivision thereof.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or erection
of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other than a mobile home)
without a basement or poured footings, the "start of construction" includes the
first permanent framing or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its
piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile
home subdivision, "start of construction" means the affixing of the mobile home
to its permanent site. For mobile homes within mobile home parks or mobile home
subdivisions, "start of construction" is the date on which the construction of
facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the construction of streets, either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and installation of utilities) is
completed.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or mobile home that is principally
above ground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market values of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of a wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
ordinance. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
3-3-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city of
Tombstone.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
a special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "the flood insurance study for the
city of Tombstone, Arizona", with an accompanying flood insurance rate map is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance. The
flood insurance study is on file at the office of the city clerk, city of
Tombstone. The flood insurance study is the minimum area of applicability of
this ordinance and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this ordinance and which are recommended to the floodplain
board by the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restriction: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed to neither limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create liability on the
part of the city of Tombstone, any officer or employee thereof, or the federal
insurance administration, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   G.   Statutory Exemptions:
      1.   In accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes section 45-2342, nothing
in this chapter shall:
         a.   Affect existing uses of property or the right to continuation of
the use under conditions which existed on the effective date of this ordinance.
         b.   Affect repair or alteration of property for the purposes for
which such property was used on the effective date of this ordinance; providing
such repair or alteration does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the value of
the property prior to the repair or alteration; and provided the repair or
alteration does not decrease the carrying capacity of the watercourse.
         c.   Affect or apply to facilities constructed or installed pursuant
to a certificate of environmental compatibility issued under the authority of
title 40, chapter 2, article 6.2.
      2.   In accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes section 45-2343, written
authorization shall not be required, nor shall the floodplain board prohibit:
         a.   The construction of bridges, culverts, dikes and other structures
necessary to the construction of public highways, roads and streets
intersecting a watercourse.
         b.   The construction of storage dams for watering livestock or
wildlife, structures on banks of a creek, stream, river, wash, arroyo, or other
watercourse to prevent erosion of or damage to adjoining land, or dams for the
conservation of floodwaters as permitted by title 45, chapter 3.
         c.   Construction of tailing damns and waste disposal areas for use in
connection with mining and metallurgical operations. This paragraph does not
exempt those sand and gravel operations which will divert, retard or obstruct
the flow of waters in any watercourse.
         d.   Any flood control district, or other political subdivision, from
exercising powers granted to it under Arizona Revised Statutes title 45,
chapter 10.
      3.   These exemptions do not exempt any person from liability if that
person's actions increase flood hazards to any other person or property.
   H.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: Every new structure, building, fill,
excavation or development located or maintained within any area of special
flood hazard, in violation of this ordinance is a public nuisance per se.
   I.   Abatement Of Violations: Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a
violation of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator shall submit a report
to the floodplain administrator which is pertinent to said violation. Within
thirty (30) days of receipt of this report, the floodplain board shall either:
      1.   Take any necessary action to affect the abatement of such violation;
or
      2.   Issue a variance to this ordinance in accordance with the provisions
of section
3-3-6 of this chapter; or
      3.   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the floodplain board within
twenty (20) days. At their next regularly scheduled public meeting, the
floodplain board shall either order the abatement of said violation or they
shall grant a variance in accordance with the provisions of section
3-3-6 of this chapter.
   J.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow
of waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the floodplain board.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a class 2 misdemeanor.
   K.   Severability: This ordinance and the various parts thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. Should any section of this ordinance be declared by
the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the ordinance as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the
section so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
3-3-4: ADMINISTRATION:
Establishment of development permit:
   A.   Permit: A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of a special flood hazard established in
subsection
3-3-3B of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the floodplain administrator and may include, but not be
limited to; plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevation of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      1.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
habitable floor (including basements) of all structures; in zone AO, elevation
of existing grade and proposed elevation of lowest habitable floor of all
structures;
      2.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
structure will be floodproof;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 3-3-5A3c of this chapters; and
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties of
the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all permits to determine that the site is reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of a
special flood hazard. For purposes of this ordinance, "adversely affects" means
that the cumulative effects of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point.
   C.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection 3-3-3B, "Basis For Establishing The
Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this chapter the floodplain administrator
shall utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or
other source, on order to administer section
3-3-5 of this chapter. Any such information shall be submitted to the
floodplain board for adoption.
   D.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained: Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed for flood insurance policies:
      1.   The certified elevation required in subsection
3-3-5A3a of this chapter;
      2.   The certification required in subsection
3-3-5A3b of this chapter;
      3.   The floodproofing certification required in subsection
3-3-5A3c of this chapter; and
      4.   The certified elevation required in section 3-3-5D2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
   E.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Arizona department of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration; and
      2.   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   F.   Construction Of Flood Control Protective Works: Within one hundred
twenty (120) days after completion of construction of any flood control
protective works which changes the rate of flow during flooding or the
configuration of the floodplain upstream or downstream from or adjacent to the
project, the person or agency responsible for installation of the project shall
provide to the governing bodies of all jurisdictions affected by the project a
new delineation of all floodplains affected by the project. The new delineation
shall be done according to the criteria adopted by the director of water
resources.
   G.   Development Plan: Advise the flood control district of Cochise County
and any adjunct jurisdiction having responsibility for floodplain management in
writing and provide a copy of a development plan of all applications for
floodplain use permits or variances to develop land in a floodplain or floodway
within one mile of the corporate limits of the city of Tombstone. Also, advise
the flood control district of Cochise County in writing and provide a copy of
any development plan of any major development proposed within a floodplain or
floodway which could affect floodplains, floodways or watercourses within the
district's area of jurisdiction. Written notice and a copy of the plan of
development shall be sent to the district no later than three (3) working days
after having been received by the floodplain administrator.
   H.   Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact location
of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in section
3-3-6 of this chapter.
   I.   Violations: Take actions on violations of this chapter as required in
subsection
3-3-3I of this chapter. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
3-3-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   Standards Of Construction: In all areas of special flood hazards the
following standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All mobile homes shall meet the anchoring standards of subsection
E1 of this section.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   Elevation And Floodproofing:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure
shall have the lowest habitable floor, including basements, elevated to or
above the base flood elevation. Nonresidential structures may meet the
standards in subsection A3c of this section. Upon the completion of the
structure the elevation of the lowest habitable floor including basements shall
be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to
the floodplain administrator.
         b.   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure in
zone AO shall have the lowest floor, including basements, elevated to or above
the depth number specified on the FIRM. If there is no depth number on the
FIRM, the lowest floor, including basements, shall be elevated one foot (1')
above the crown of the nearest street. Nonresidential structures may meet the
standards in subsection A3c of this section. Upon completion of the structure a
registered professional engineer shall certify to the floodplain administrator
that the elevation of the structure meets this standard.
         c.   Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated in
conformance with subsection section A3a or A3b of this section or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
            (1)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
            (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certifications shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
         d.   Mobile homes shall meet the above standards and also the
standards in subsection E of this section.
   B.   Standards For Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
      1.   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
      2.   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
   C.   Standards For Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
      2.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Standards For Subdivisions:
      1.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood
hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
      2.   All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed
structures and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood level, the
final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
   E.   Standards For Mobile Homes And Mobile Home Parks And Subdivisions:
      1.   Mobile Homes: All mobile homes and additions to mobile homes shall
be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by one of the
following methods:
         a.   Over the top ties are provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the mobile home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, except that mobile homes less than fifty feet (50') long require
only one additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties are provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, except that mobile homes less
than fifty feet (50') long require only four (4) additional ties per side; and
         c.   All components of the anchoring system are capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds.
      2.   Mobile Home Parks And Mobile Home Subdivisions: The following
standards are required for: a) mobile homes not placed in mobile home parks or
subdivisions, b) new mobile home parks or subdivisions, c) expansions to
existing mobile home parks or subdivisions, and d) repair, reconstruction, or
improvements to existing mobile home parks or subdivisions that equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the value of the streets, utilities and pads
before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
         a.   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler shall be
provided.
         b.   All mobile homes shall be placed on pads or lots elevated on
compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile home is at
or above the base flood level. If elevated on pilings:
            (1)   The lots shall be large enough to permit steps;
            (2)   The piling shall be placed in stable soil no more than ten
feet (10') apart; and
            (3)   Reinforcement shall be provided for pilings more than six
feet (6') above the ground level.
   F.   Mobile Home Placement: No mobile home shall be placed in a floodway,
except in an existing mobile home park or existing mobile home subdivision.
   G.   Floodways: Located within areas of a special flood hazard established
in subsection 3-3-3B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since
the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
provisions apply:
      1.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development are prohibited unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   The placement of any mobile homes except in an existing mobile home
park or subdivision is prohibited.
      3.   If subsections G1 and G2 of this section are satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this section.
      4.   If no floodway is identified, then a setback of twenty feet (20')
from the band(s) of the watercourse will be established, where encroachment
will be prohibited. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
3-3-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   The floodplain board of Tombstone shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The floodplain board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirements, decision, or determination made by the
floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
ordinance.
   C.   Those aggrieved by the decision of the floodplain board, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the superior court of Cochise County.
   D.   In passing upon such applications, the floodplain board shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   E.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing items in subsections D1 through D11 of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
(1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   F.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection D of this section and
the purposes of this ordinance, the floodplain board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this ordinance.
   G.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the federal insurance administration upon
request. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
3-3-7: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historical Places
of the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures at
set forth in the remainder of this section.
   B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   C.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of, the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   E.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. Such notice will also state that the land upon which the
variance is granted shall be ineligible for exchange of state land pursuant to
the flood relocation and land exchange program provided for by Arizona Revised
Statutes title 26, chapter 2, article 2. A copy of the notice shall be recorded
by the floodplain board in the office of the Cochise County recorder and shall
be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the
affected parcel of land. (Ord. 1-1983, 2-16-1983)
CHAPTER 4
LAND CLEARING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Approval Requirements
3-4-4: Application Requirements
3-4-5: Exemptions
3-4-6: General Requirements
3-4-7: General Provisions
3-4-8: Performance Bond
3-4-9: Appeals
3-4-10: Violation; Enforcement And Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city;
   B.   To preserve and enhance the city's physical and aesthetic character by
preventing indiscriminate removal, excavation, clearing and grading of soil
necessary to curb loss due to erosion, flooding, landslides and mine collapse;
   C.   To promote land development practices that result in a minimal
disturbance to the city's vegetation and native soil structure and protect
infiltration capacity;
   D.   To minimize surface water and ground water runoff and diversion and to
prevent erosion and reduce the risk of slides;
   E.   To minimize the need for additional storm drainage facilities;
   F.   To retain clusters of trees and other natural desert vegetation for the
abatement of noise and for wind protection;
   G.   To promote building and site planning practices that are consistent
with the city's natural topographical and vegetation features while at the same
time recognizing that certain factors such as condition (e.g., disease, danger
of falling, etc.), proximity to existing and proposed structures and
improvements, interference with utility services, protection of scenic views,
and the realization of a reasonable enjoyment of property may require the
removal of certain trees and ground cover;
   H.   To reduce siltation and water pollution in underground reservoir;
   I.   To implement the goals and objectives of the Arizona department of
environmental quality;
   J.   To implement and further the city's comprehensive plan; and
   K.   It is not the intent or purpose of this chapter to prevent the
reasonable development of land in the city. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions and terms herein will be in conformance with the Tombstone and
Cochise County zoning regulations and shall include the following additional
terms:
LAND CLEARING: The act of removal, destruction or physical alteration of
vegetation, soil and rocks by manual, mechanical or chemical means, but does
not include mowing, or normal cultivation associated with an agricultural
operation. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-3: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
Any activity that includes the clearing of more than one acre of land and which
is not exempt by this chapter, shall be required to have a clearing permit from
the county. If the proposed clearing of more than one acre of land is for the
purposes of a legal subdivision, then a clearing permit may only be granted
upon approval of the tentative plat by the planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-4: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person, corporation, or other legal entity shall engage in or cause
clearing in the city without having obtained a land clearing permit from the
office of city clerk or designee.
   B.   In the event of a conflict between the requirements of this chapter and
any other requirement of this code, the more restrictive requirement shall
apply.
   C.   Applicants proposing to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or use any
structure or building that involves the clearing of more than one acre of land
and which are not otherwise exempt by this chapter, shall be required to submit
the following information in addition to all other permit application
requirements:
      1.   Area of parcel to be cleared shown on a site plan;
      2.   Amount of land to be cleared (in acres);
      3.   Purpose of clearing; and
      4.   Proposed dust and erosion control measures.
   D.   Any activity that involves the clearing of more than one acre of land,
but does not propose to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or use any
structure or building, shall be required to submit a permit application, with
the appropriate fee and the following additional information:
      1.   A site plan showing area of parcel to be cleared;
      2.   Amount of land to be cleared (in acres);
      3.   Purpose of clearing; and
      4.   Proposed dust and erosion control measures.
   E.   Permit processing and approval will include a review of compliance with
the application requirements described herein and specification of the dust and
erosion control measures to be implemented by the applicant. If it is
determined that the dust and erosion measures either proposed or implemented by
the applicant do not satisfy the general provisions described in section
3-4-7 of this chapter, the city of Tombstone reserves the right to place
additional requirements on the clearing permit to rectify such deficiencies.
   F.   Following approval of a permit for clearing, all sites shall be subject
to inspection for compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following categories of uses are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   A.   Clearing of land for agricultural purposes, mining and other uses
exempted by Arizona Revised Statutes section 11-830;
   B.   Clearing for the maintenance of existing roads, private access
easements, driveways, and utility easements on ground that was disturbed prior
to the effective date of this chapter;
   C.   Clearing for new public utilities;
   D.   Clearing as part of a development where clearing limits have been set
and erosion control plans approved as part of the approval for the development;
provided, that land clearing in connection with such projects shall take place
only after a development permit has been issued by the city and shall be in
accordance with such permit;
   E.   The installation and maintenance of fire hydrants, water meters, and
pumping stations, and street furniture by the city or utility companies or
their contractors;
   F.   Removal of trees and ground cover in emergency situations involving
immediate danger to life or property or substantial fire hazards;
   G.   Removal of diseased, dead or dying trees, shrubs, weeds and grass
wherein the removal of the trees, shrubs and grass is essential for the
protection of life, limb, or property;
   H.   Routine gardening and landscape maintenance of existing landscaped
areas on developed lots, including pruning, weeding, planting, and other
activities associated with maintaining an already established landscape;
   I.   Routine maintenance activities, including tree, shrub, weed and grass
removal, required to control vegetation on private property, road and utility
rights of way. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-6: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Submittal Requirements: A complete application for a land clearing
permit shall be submitted on the application form provided by the city, and
including the following:
      1.   Date of submittal.
      2.   Name and address of each person having an interest in the proposed
property or subdivision and the extent of such interest.
      3.   Name, phone number and e-mail address of a contact person.
      4.   Notarized letter to the city of Tombstone from the owner if the
project representative is not the owner stating that the owner is granting
permission for the work to be formed on the designated property.
      5.   Metes and bounds legal description and general location of the
proposed property or subdivision, and a sufficient description of existing
landmarks and boundaries to locate and field inspect the proposed site by
vehicle.
      6.   Parcel numbers and working name of the proposed property or
subdivision.
      7.   Total area of site in acres and if the proposed site is a
subdivision, number of lots and typical minimum subdivision lot sizes.
      8.   Reference by book, page and date recorded of any previous plats.
      9.   Utilities and services:
         a.   Description of the utility service areas, which serve the
property or subdivision.
         b.   Description of medical facilities, elementary and high schools
and public transportation available to the location.
      10.   Nature of off site and on site improvements proposed to be
constructed by the builder including:
         a.   Description of how improvements will be guaranteed.
         b.   Description of the existing legal and physical access to the
site.
         c.   Statement as to whether private streets are proposed and how they
will be maintained.
      11.   Statement as to whether, if the property is a subdivision, the
community will be gated and how access will be provided for emergency services.
      12.   Description of any special districts in which the proposed property
or subdivision is located.
      13.   Description of the zoning district classifications in which the
proposed property or subdivision is located along with a statement that all
applicable city of Tombstone zoning regulations shall be satisfied within the
proposed site.
      14.   Statement that the proposed property or subdivision is intended to
meet the minimum city of Tombstone standards or identification of any waivers
that are anticipated. Provide a technical justification for any waivers from
the provisions of this chapter or any other applicable city regulations.
      15.   Statement of what provisions will be made for fencing the property
or subdivision to preclude if permitted, livestock from roaming within the
subdivision and on public streets, if any.
      16.   Description of dust control measures to be used during
construction.
      17.   A plot plan on a base map provided by the applicant or by the city
containing the following information:
         a.   Date of drawing or revision, north arrow, adjoining roadways and
appropriate scales;
         b.   Prominent physical features of the property including, but not
limited to, geological formations, critical areas and watercourses;
         c.   General location, type, range of size, and conditions of ground
cover;
         d.   Identification by areas, of significant ground cover that is to
be removed, and information on how the removal, clearing, excavation or grading
shall prevent erosion, flooding, landslides and mine collapse;
         e.   Any existing improvement on the property including, but not
limited to, existing cleared areas, structures, driveways, ponds, and
utilities;
         f.   Information indicating the method of drainage and erosion control
during and following the clearing operation; and
         g.   Information on how property lines are identified.
      18.   Payment of the land clearing application fee in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
   B.   Granting A Permit: The office of city clerk shall grant a clearing
permit application if the application meets the requirements of this chapter
and all other relevant city codes as determined by the planning and zoning
committee. No clearing permit shall be issued without written authorization by
the planning and zoning committee.
   C.   Amending Clearing Plans: Approved clearing plans shall not be amended
without authorization of the office of city clerk and approval of the planning
and zoning committee.
   D.   Posting Of Permit Notice: No work authorized by a clearing permit shall
commence until a permit notice has been posted by the applicant on the subject
property at a conspicuous location. The notice shall remain posted in said
location until the authorized clearing has been completed.
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: Any clearing permit granted under this chapter
shall expire one year from the date of issuance. Upon a showing of good cause,
a clearing permit may be extended for six (6) months by the office of city
clerk.
   F.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: A clearing permit may be suspended
or revoked by the office of city clerk because of incorrect information
supplied or any violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-
29-2004)
3-4-7: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following provisions will apply to all clearing governed by this chapter:
   A.   Dust Control: During clearing, and until revegetation or stabilization
has taken place, dust shall be minimized through the application of generally
acceptable dust suppressants. Water, although generally accepted, is not
preferred. Unacceptable dust controls are those that would have an adverse
effect on human, animal or plant life, or cause property damage.
   B.   Erosion Control: During land clearing, and until revegetation or
stabilization has taken place, erosion shall be minimized through the
application of acceptable best management practices. Unacceptable clearing
practices and erosion control measures are those that alter existing drainage
patterns and/or cause property damage off site.
   C.   Floodplain Regulations And Diversions: The applicant is prohibited from
engaging in any activity that will divert, retard or obstruct the flow of
waters in a watercourse if it creates a hazard to life or property. (Ord. 04-
2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-8: PERFORMANCE BOND:
The office of city clerk may require, as a condition to the granting of a
permit, that the applicant furnish a performance bond to the city to secure the
applicant's obligation, after the approved land clearing has been accomplished,
to complete the erosion control on the property in accordance with the
conditions of the permit. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of erosion control and cleanup and with surety and conditions satisfactory
to the office of city clerk. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-9: APPEALS:
Appeals of the office of city clerk's decision on a land clearing permit
application shall be submitted to the common council within ten (10) business
days from the date of decision. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
3-4-10: VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Violating Chapter: Any person, firm or corporation whether as
principal, owner, agent, tenant, employee or otherwise, who violates any
provisions of this chapter or who violates or fails to comply with any order or
regulation made hereunder shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided for class 1 misdemeanors by Arizona
Revised Statutes. Such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during which such violation or failure
to comply with this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted. Upon a
finding of responsibility for a violation of this chapter, the penalty shall be
set by the magistrate and shall be not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
nor more than the maximum allowed by the Arizona Revised Statutes for a class 1
misdemeanor. Each twenty four (24) hour period may constitute an additional
violation and subject to an additional fine.
   B.   Civil Infraction: In addition to any other sanction or remedy that may
be available, a violation of or failure to comply with any provision of this
chapter shall be a civil infraction and shall be subject to enforcement and
civil penalties. Any grading or clearing contrary to the provisions of this
chapter is unlawful and constitutes a public nuisance.
   C.   Action To Enforce Chapter: For any violation of this chapter, the city
attorney may, and upon order of the common council shall, commence all
necessary actions or proceedings to enforce the provisions of this chapter
including, but not limited to, actions to abate, enjoin or restore the property
in question.
   D.   Remedies: All remedies concerning this chapter shall be cumulative and
not exclusive. Conviction and punishment of any person hereunder shall not
relieve such persons from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions and shall not prevent the enforced correction or remediation
thereof. In addition to the other remedies provided herein, any adjacent or
neighboring property owner specially damaged by the violation of any provision
of this chapter may institute, in addition to any other appropriate remedy or
preceding an action for injunction, mandamus, or proceeding to prevent, abate
or restore such unlawful clearing. (Ord. 04-2004, 6-29-2004)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Required
4-1-2: License Transfer
4-1-3: Application
4-1-4: Statement Of Trade
4-1-5: Specify Name
4-1-6: Receipt
4-1-7: Term Of License
4-1-8: Exhibit License
4-1-9: Licensing Control
4-1-10: Proof Of Issuance
4-1-11: Licensee Liable
4-1-12: Violation
4-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Applicability: Except as stated in subsection B of this section, this
chapter applies to any person, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, sole proprietorship or any other type of business entity of any
form, whether or not having a physical or mailing address inside or outside the
city limits of Tombstone, wherein twenty five percent (25%) or more of the
gross annual revenues of any trade, calling, vocation, enterprise,
establishment, profession, occupation or business are earned through the use of
the Tombstone historic preservation district, or earned within the city limits
of Tombstone or earned through the use of any property owned by Tombstone, or
to which Tombstone provides municipal or public utility type services.
   B.   501(c) Organizations: Nonprofit (501(c)) organizations or groups that
have received tax exempt status under the United States internal revenue code
pursuant to 26 USC section 501(c) are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person, whether as principal,
officer, shareholder or agent, either personally or for another person, or for
any corporation, or as a member of any firm, limited liability company,
partnership, sole proprietorship or any other type of business entity of any
form to commence, practice, transact or carry on any trade, calling, vocation,
enterprise, establishment, profession, occupation or business within the city
limits without first having procured a license from the city to do so and
without complying with all regulations of such trade, calling, vocation,
enterprise, establishment, profession, occupation or business as specified or
required by the United States or the state of Arizona and its government
agencies or political subdivisions. No license shall be issued without proof by
the applicant of such compliance and verification by the clerk that no
violation of the city's zoning regulations will occur by such issuance.
   D.   Violation: The practicing or carrying on of any trade, calling,
vocation, enterprise, establishment, profession, occupation or business by any
person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership or sole
proprietorship without first having procured a license from the city to do so,
or without complying with any and all regulations of such trade, calling,
vocation, enterprise, establishment, profession, occupation or business as
required by other law or by this chapter shall constitute a separate violation
of this chapter for each and every day that such trade, calling, vocation,
enterprise, establishment, profession, occupation or business is practiced,
carried on or conducted within the city. Every person who shall conduct an
established trade, business, game or amusement, calling, profession or
occupation outside the city, and deliver products or perform a service within
the city shall obtain a license and pay a license fee.
   E.   Privilege License Tax Imposed: A privilege license tax is hereby
imposed upon and shall be paid by every corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, sole proprietorship, association, company or person operating or
engaging in any business pursuit, enterprise, trade, calling, vocation,
establishment, profession, or occupation within the limits of the city.
   F.   Rates: Said privilege license tax shall be computed as follows:
      1.   Businesses with their first year license for the city of Tombstone
shall be in the amount of thirty dollars ($30.00).
      2.   Home based businesses with no external employees shall be in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). For the purpose of this regulation, an
"external employee" is one who resides outside the home based business.
      3.   All other businesses, not otherwise hereinafter provided for shall
be in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-
2013)
4-1-2: LICENSE TRANSFER:
No license granted or issued under any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be in any manner assignable or transferable, or shall authorize any person
other than is named therein to do business, or authorize the same to be done in
any place other than is therein named or designated, unless the permission of
the mayor and common council to make such assignment, transfer or change is
endorsed on such license. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-3: APPLICATION:
In all initial business license applications and/or annual renewals the
applicant shall provide the following documents or affirmations:
   A.   Copy of Arizona transaction privilege tax certificate.
   B.   Copy of health department permit if applicable.
   C.   Copy of liquor license if applicable.
   D.   Copy of contractor's license if applicable.
   E.   Certificate of insurance ($1,000,000.00) with city of Tombstone listed
as additional insured for businesses using boardwalks and public spaces for
performances including walking tours.
   F.   Copy of document demonstrating legal control of the business premises
for business addresses within the city of Tombstone.
   G.   Affirmation by signature that all state, county and local taxes are
current or that repayment arrangements have been made with the appropriate
agency.
   H.   All permits shall require affirmation by signature that failure to
maintain the status of the above permits and conditions will result in
revocation of the city business license. Reinstatement shall require approval
of mayor and council.
   I.   A copy of the application shall be given to the marshal's office,
planning, zoning or building official, fire chief, and public works director.
      1.   No business license shall be issued until the planning director
determines that the business is operated in the proper zone, that there are no
violations of the city's subdivision or zoning ordinance, and that any
conditions of a zone change or conditional use permit have been met.
      2.   No license shall be issued until the fire chief and building
official inspect the business, and any building or structure the business will
occupy, for compliance with city ordinances. The license may be issued after
the inspection if the fire chief and building official determine there is no
immediate danger to life or property in the use of the building or operation of
the business and there is full compliance with the historic district design
guidelines.
      3.   No license shall be issued until after the marshal's office conducts
a background investigation. After the investigation, the license shall be
issued unless the marshal's office discovers:
         a.   An outstanding warrant for a felony or a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude.
         b.   A record or history of fraudulent or deceptive business practices
by persons connected with the business.
         c.   A record or history of business practices that are dangerous to
human life by persons connected with the business.
      4.   No business license shall be issued until the public works director
certifies that the business has adequate backflow protection at the water
service connection, to prevent such contaminants or pollutants which could
backflow into the public water supply.
      5.   No business license shall be issued without proof provided by the
applicant of a transaction privilege license issued by the Arizona department
of revenue.
      6.   Any inspections required under this section shall be completed
within fourteen (14) business days of the date and time marked on the
application.
      7.   When any law requires a business to obtain a certificate from the
health inspector, ADEQ, or other county, state or federal regulatory agency,
the applicant shall obtain such regulatory approvals and/or certifications
before the issuance of the business license and shall file a copy of the
certificate(s) at the time of issuance of the business license.
      8.   If the business is located or intends to conduct business within the
historic preservation district of Tombstone, the business shall receive
certification from the historic preservation commission or the historic
preservation inspector that the business complies with title 10,
chapter 19 of this code. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-4: STATEMENT OF TRADE:
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter it shall be
unlawful, and it is hereby made the duty of the city clerk, to require and
obtain from every applicant for a license under the provisions hereof, at the
time of such application, a verified statement concerning the trade,
occupation, pursuit, calling and business of such applicant, and no license
shall be issued to any applicant who shall, after request by the city clerk,
fail or refuse to make said statement. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-5: SPECIFY NAME:
Every license issued hereunder shall specify the name of the person, firm,
association or corporation to whom the same is issued, and the particular place
in the city where such business pursuit, enterprise or occupation is to be done
or carried on. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-6: RECEIPT:
The license shall be paid for only in lawful money of the United States; no
receipt for a license shall be issued by the city clerk except on a blank or
form received from and signed by the said clerk. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
No license receipt shall be sold or used by the city clerk for any period of
time exceeding the time printed or written on the license receipt, and no
person required to be licensed shall pay any sum of money to the city clerk for
a license without demanding and receiving a license receipt, on which is
printed or written the time for which the license is issued and the amount paid
thereof. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-8: EXHIBIT LICENSE:
Any person having a license under the provisions of this chapter shall exhibit
the same at all times while in force in some conspicuous part of his or her or
its place of business, and shall produce the same when applying for a renewal,
or when required to do so by any officer of the license or police department.
(Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-9: LICENSING CONTROL:
This chapter shall operate independently from any and all other control and/or
licensing provisions of the city, unless specifically indicated otherwise
within such other provisions of this code. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-10: PROOF OF ISSUANCE:
In the absence of proof by the defendant in any criminal action brought for the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter for the issuance of a
license, it shall be presumed that the same was not issued, and the burden of
proof as to the issuance of the license shall be on the defendant. (Ord. 2013-
03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-11: LICENSEE LIABLE:
In any action brought under or arising out of any of the provisions of this
chapter, the fact that the defendant himself, herself or itself, or any agents
or employees, is engaged in any business, pursuit, enterprise or occupation for
the transaction of business for which a license is required by this chapter, or
that such party exhibited a sign indicating such business or call, pursuit,
enterprise or occupation, shall be prima facie evidence of the liability of
such party to pay a license fee. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
4-1-12: VIOLATION:
   A.   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be restricted,
suspended or revoked by the city clerk, after notice and an opportunity for a
hearing, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business.
      3.   Any violation of this chapter.
      4.   Conviction of any felony or any other crime involving moral
turpitude.
      5.   Conducting business in violation of any city ordinance, county
ordinance or state law relating to the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Notice of the restrictions, suspension or revocation of a license shall
be given in writing, by the city clerk, setting forth the grounds for the
restrictions, suspension or revocation. Such notice shall be mailed to the
licensee at the address listed on the business license. The mailing of such
notice shall constitute proper notice to the licensee.
   C.   Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application for license or by
the restrictions placed upon the license or by the suspension or revocation of
such license shall have the right of appeal to the council. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the city clerk, within ten (10) calendar days after
such denial, restriction, suspension or revocation, a written statement setting
forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The council shall set a time and a
place for hearing of such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be mailed to
the appellant at the address listed on the business license at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the date set for the hearing. The mailing of such notice
shall constitute proper notice to the appellant. The decision and order of the
council on such appeal shall be final. Once the council has made a final
decision to suspend or revoke the business license, the marshal's office shall
be responsible for ensuring no further business is conducted by that business
by taking whatever actions are necessary to prevent future business from being
conducted including locking the doors. Additionally, the marshal's office shall
have the authority to criminally cite the person or company in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
   D.   Any person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, sole
proprietorship or any other type of business entity of any form which violates
any provision of this chapter or engages in business without a business license
or conducts business after the council has made a final decision on appeal
shall be guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes sections 13-802C and 13-803A4,
and amendments thereto, by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for individuals and not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
for enterprises, or, pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 13-707A3, and
amendments thereto, by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than thirty
(30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist may constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any
sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 2013-03, 1-22-2013)
CHAPTER 2
CITY TAX CODE
SECTION:
4-2-1: City Tax Code Adopted
4-2-2: Penalty
4-2-3: Applicability
4-2-4: Hotel Tax Upon Transient Lodging
4-2-5: Gross Income From Lodging Or Lodging Space To Transients
4-2-6: Revenues
4-2-7: Tax Increase
4-2-8: Annual Liability
4-2-1: CITY TAX CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That certain document known as "The 2012-2014 Amendments to the Tax
Code of the City of Tombstone", three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Tombstone, Arizona, which document was
made a public record by Resolution No. 04-2021 of the City of Tombstone,
Arizona, is hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this ordinance.
   B.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of these amendments
to the Tax Code shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a
violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above
described.
   C.   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
ordinance or any part of these amendments to the Tax Code adopted herein by
reference is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
   D.   The provisions of this ordinance conform this local code to the Model
City Tax Code, which is controlling. The provisions of each section are
effective as stated in each section and are as provided by the Municipal Tax
Code Commission upon approval of the stated change to the Model City Tax Code.
Provisions subject to a retroactive effective date at the time of approval by
the Municipal Tax Code Commission favor taxpayers by reducing an imposition of
the tax or increasing an allowable deduction, exemption, or exclusion.
Provisions that increase the imposition of the tax or decrease the application
of a deduction, exemption, or exclusion had a prospective effective date at the
time of approval by the Municipal Tax Code Commission. Provisions creating a
new Option state the first effective date the new Option is available for
selection. Provisions eliminating an existing Option state the last effective
date of the eliminated Option. (Ord. 2021-2, 4-13-2021)
4-2-2: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of these amendments to the
tax code shall be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
civil tax lien, penalty and interest. Each day that a violation continues shall
be a separate offense punishable as herein above described. (Ord. 2007-04, 3-
13-2007)
4-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
This tax shall not apply to the gross sales or gross income as may now or as
may in the future be exempt by Arizona statute from the Arizona state privilege
sales tax. This includes, but is not limited to, certain rental income which is
exempted by Arizona state privilege sales tax statutes. (Ord. 76-77-07, 4-12-
1977; amd. Ord. 2007-04, 3-13-2007)
4-2-4: HOTEL TAX UPON TRANSIENT LODGING:
In addition to the taxes levied and shall be collected an additional tax in the
amount equal to four percent (4%) of the gross income from the business
activity of any hotel engaging or continuing within the city in the business of
charging for lodging and/or lodging space furnished to any transient. (Ord.
2011-12, 12-13-2011)
   A.   Transient: Any person who, for any period of not more than thirty (30)
consecutive days, either at his own expense or at the expense of another,
obtains lodging or the use of any lodging space in any hotel for which a charge
is made.
   B.   Exceptions: This tax shall not apply to the gross sales or gross income
as may now or as may in the future be exempt by Arizona statutes from the
Arizona state privilege sales tax, except that taxes on food, electricity, gas,
water and communication, including, but not limited to, telephone and
telegraph, shall not be exempt. This includes, but is not limited to, certain
rental income which is exempt by Arizona state privilege sales tax statutes.
(Ord. 7-1995, 9-18-1995)
4-2-5: GROSS INCOME FROM LODGING OR LODGING SPACE TO TRANSIENTS:
   A.   If the charge made by a hotel to a transient includes any charge for
services or accommodations in addition to that of lodging and/or the use of
lodging space, then such portions of the total charge as represents only the
charge for the use of the room and/or lodging space shall be distinctly set out
and billed to such transient by such hotel as a separate item, or the entire
charge shall be deemed charge for use of lodging space subject to the tax
imposed by article IV, section 2-447. (Ord. 2007-04, 3-13-2007)
   B.   A separately itemized charge for use of the furnishings contained in
lodging or lodging space rented, leased, or licensed to a transient shall be
deemed gross income from the business of renting, leasing, and licensing
lodging to a transient. Furthermore, in regard to such tangible personal
property, such person is deemed not in the business of rental, leasing and
licensing of tangible personal property for all purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Persons engaged in the business of rental, leasing, and licensing of
lodging to a transient shall include charges for complementary food and drink
as gross income from the business of rental, leasing, and licensing of lodging
to transients, and shall not be deemed in the restaurant business for all
purposes of this chapter, unless such charges:
      1.   Are made only at the request of the transient, or as separate,
optional charge for consuming specific food or drink (for example: "room
service" charges); and
      2.   Are commensurate with charges for like quantity and type of food
consumed by patrons of persons engaged in the restaurant business. (Ord. 7-
1995, 9-18-1995)
4-2-6: REVENUES:
Revenues received will be designated for use in promotion of the city of
Tombstone. (Ord. 2011-12, 12-13-2011)
4-2-7: TAX INCREASE:
The tax rate in each of the following sections of the tax code are hereby
increased from two and one-half percent (2.5%) to three and one-half percent
(3.5%):
Section 2-405 Advertising
Section 2-410 Amusements, exhibitions, and similar activities
Section 2-415 Construction contracting: construction contractors
Section 2-416 Construction contracting: speculative builders
Section 2-417 Construction contracting: owner-builders who are speculative
              builders
Section 2-425 Job printing
Section 2-427 Manufactured buildings
Section 2-430 Timbering and other extraction
Section 2-435 Publishing and periodicals distribution
Section 2-444 Hotels
Section 2-455 Restaurants and bars
Section 2-460 Retail sales: measure of tax; burden of proof; exclusions
Section 2-470 Telecommunication services
Section 2-475 Transporting for hire
 
The provisions of this chapter and the increase in tax rate provided herein
shall become effective from and after July 1, 2013.
Also, the increase in taxation imposed in this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into prior to the effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-
11, 5-20-2013)
4-2-8: ANNUAL LIABILITY:
   A.   The taxes levied under this chapter shall be due and payable monthly on
or before the first day of the second month next succeeding the month in which
the tax accrued, and shall be delinquent five (5) days thereafter. (Ord. 2-80-
81, 7-21-1980)
   B.   A taxpayer whose estimated annual liability for taxes imposed by this
chapter is one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less may pay such taxes on an
annual basis.
   C.   A taxpayer whose estimated annual liability for taxes imposed by this
chapter is between one hundred dollars one cent ($100.01) and two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), may pay such taxes on a quarterly basis.
   D.   A taxpayer whose estimated annual liability for taxes imposed by this
chapter exceeds two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall pay such taxes on a
monthly basis.
   E.   The taxpayer shall, on or before the first day of the second month,
prepare a return showing the amount of the tax for which he is liable for the
preceding month and shall mail the return together with a remittance, in the
form required herein, for the amount of the tax, to the office of the clerk.
The return shall be verified by the oath of the taxpayer or an authorized
agent.
   F.   Any person taxable under this chapter making cash or credit sales,
shall report such cash and credit sales separately, and upon making an
application therefor may obtain from the clerk an extension of time for the
payment of taxes due on the credit sales. The extension shall be granted by the
clerk for good cause in the discretion of the clerk. When the extension is
granted, the taxpayer shall thereafter include in each monthly report all
collections made on such credit sales during the month next proceeding, and
shall pay the taxes due thereon at the time of filing such report.
   G.   The clerk, in granting an extension of time with which to make a
return, shall not grant an extension beyond the fifteenth day of the second
month next succeeding the month in which the tax accrued and shall be
delinquent one day thereafter.
   H.   No license or renewal thereof pursuant to this chapter shall be issued
to any applicant who has engaged in any business or other activity without a
license in violation of the provisions of this chapter unless paid applicant
first pays the amount of privilege tax for which he would have been liable
under the terms of this chapter had he been licensed, plus an additional sum
equal to ten percent (10%) of the said amount, plus interest at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month on all unpaid accounts from the time the tax is due and
payable until paid.
   I.   Any taxpayer who fails to pay the privilege tax imposed by this chapter
within five (5) days from the date upon which the payments become due shall be
subject to and shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the
tax, plus interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month or fraction of a
month from the time the taxes become due and payable until paid.
   J.   If, as a result of the audit or examination of the clerk, a taxpayer is
determined to be deficient in the amount of tax paid, then all additional
amounts determined to be due under the provisions of this chapter shall bear
interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month or a fraction of a month
from the time the additional tax is due and payable until paid. (Ord. 2-80-81,
7-21-1980)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: License Required
4-3-3: Application Procedure
4-3-4: Fingerprinting
4-3-5: Standards For Issuance
4-3-6: Revocation Procedure
4-3-7: Standards For Revocations
4-3-8: Appeal Procedure
4-3-9: Exhibition Of License
4-3-10: Transaction Privilege Tax Required
4-3-11: Processing Fees
4-3-12: Expiration Of License
4-3-13: Street Sales Prohibited
4-3-14: Signs To Be Observed
4-3-15: Newsboys Exempt
4-3-16: Charitable, Religious And Educational Organizations; Exemption
4-3-17: Bond Required
4-3-18: Business License Fees
4-3-19: Penalties
4-3-20: Severance Clause
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   In this chapter unless the context otherwise requires:
    BUSINESS: The business carried on by any person who is an "itinerant
merchant", "peddler", or "solicitor" as defined in this section.
   GOODS: Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT: Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city.
   PEDDLER: A. Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries, or
   B.   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods and be delivered in the future or
for future services to be performed.
   SOLICITOR: Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for future services to be performed.
   B.   A person who is a peddler under this section is not an itinerant
merchant under subsection A of this section.
   C.   A person who is a solicitor under this section is not a peddler under
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a business license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   B.   Any person who is in itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall not
be relieved from the provisions of this chapter by reason of temporary
arrangement or association with any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer, or by conducting such temporary or transient trade or auction.
   C.   Any person who is a peddler, solicitor or itinerant merchant shall
obtain a valid identification card from the city for engaging in such activity
within the city and shall carry and produce such identification card on the
demand of any police officer or upon the demand of the city clerk or any of
his/her authorized agents. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   All applicants for permits required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the city clerk. Such application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership,
or by the president, if a corporation. Application should be made on forms
available in the office of the city clerk. Application should state:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time it is proposed to be
carried on in the city, and
         a.   The local address of such individuals,
         b.   The permanent address of such individuals,
         c.   The capacity in which such individuals will act.
      3.   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of incorporation.
      4.   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business.
      5.   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered, and
   B.   All applicants for identification cards required by this chapter shall
file a written, sworn application with the clerk. Such application shall be
signed by the applicant. Applications should be made, if possible, on the forms
available in the office of the clerk. The applicant should state:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The name and mailing address of the permit applicant or permit
holder.
      3.   Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; and, is so, the nature of each offense
and the penalties assessed for each offense.
      4.   If required by the clerk or chief of police, copies of all printed
advertising proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business.
      5.   Credentials from the person, if any, for which the applicant
proposed to do business authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-4: FINGERPRINTING:
Upon the receipt of an application for a permit and identification card, the
clerk shall cause a set of the applicant's fingerprints to be taken by the
police department and attached to the application. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-5: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of an application, the clerk shall cause an investigation of the
applicant's business reputation and moral character by the police department.
   A.   The clerk shall approve the application within fifteen (15) working
days, unless the investigation discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of
the applicant's business would pose a substantial threat to the public health,
safety, morals or general welfare of the city and its residents. In particular,
the following will constitute valid reasons for a disapproval of an
application:
      1.   Tangible evidence that the applicant has been convicted of a crime
of moral turpitude; or
      2.   Tangible evidence that the applicant has made wilful misstatements
in the applications; or
      3.   Tangible evidence that the applicant has committed prior violations
of ordinances pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, or solicitors and
the like; or
      4.   Tangible evidence that the applicant has committed prior fraudulent
acts; or
      5.   Tangible evidence that the applicant has an unsatisfactory moral
character. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-6: REVOCATION PROCEDURE:
Any permit or identification card granted under this chapter may be revoked by
the clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in section
4-3-7 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the permittee at his last
known address, at least ten (10) days prior to the date for the hearing. (Ord.
2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-7: STANDARDS FOR REVOCATIONS:
A permit granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   A.   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application; or
   B.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the permit; or
   C.   Any violation of this chapter; or
   D.   Conviction of the permittee of any felony or conviction of the
permittee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   E.   Conducting the business permitted in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by a decision under this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the common council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing
with the council, within fourteen (14) days after notice of the decision has
been mailed to such person's last known address, a written statement setting
forth grounds for appeal. The council shall set the time and place for a
hearing and notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same
manner as provided in section
4-3-6 of this chapter.
   B.   The order of the council after such hearing shall be final. The council
shall make no decision which shall authorize any action denied by this chapter,
nor which shall waive or modify any requisite imposed by this chapter. (Ord.
2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-9: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall be
posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more than
one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business permitted,
separate licenses shall be issued for each location.
   B.   The clerk shall issue a permit card for each vehicle to be used by any
peddler under this chapter. The permit card shall contain the words "Licensed
Peddler", the expiration date of the license and the number of the license.
Such permit cards shall be affixed conspicuously in the premises used by the
permittee in his business. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-10: TRANSACTION PRIVILEGE TAX REQUIRED:
Application fees levied in this chapter shall be in addition to transaction
privilege taxes required by chapter 1 of this title. Failure of an applicant or
license holder to comply with chapter 1 of this title shall be sufficient
grounds for denial or revocation of any license and all identification cards
under such application or license. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-11: PROCESSING FEES:
Any person, who is a "peddler", "solicitor", or "itinerant merchant" as defined
herein, shall pay a nonrefundable processing fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) per
application filed herein to the city. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-12: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight of the last day of the period during which the license is issued.
(Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-13: STREET SALES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any booth, stand or counter
on any sidewalk in the city for the purpose of barter, sale or trade or keep or
maintain upon the street or alleyways any movable booth or stand for the
purpose of barter, sale or trade without obtaining permission of the council.
(Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-14: SIGNS TO BE OBSERVED:
It is unlawful for any peddler or solicitor in the course of his business to
ring the doorbell or knock at any building whereupon a sign bearing the words
"No Peddlers or Solicitors" is exposed to public view. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-
2004)
4-3-15: NEWSBOYS EXEMPT:
Newsboys are exempt from the provisions of this chapter for the sale of
newspaper subscriptions. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-16: CHARITABLE, RELIGIOUS AND EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS; EXEMPTION:
   A.   Any organization, society, association or corporation desiring to
solicit, or have solicited in its name, money, donations of money or property,
or financial assistance of any kind or desiring to sell or distribute any item
of literature or merchandise for which a fee is charged or solicited from
person, other than members of such organization, upon the streets, in office or
business buildings, by house to house canvass, or in public places for a
charitable, religious, educational, patriotic or philanthropic purpose shall be
exempt from the provisions of section
4-3-2 of this chapter provided there is filed a sworn application in writing on
a form to be furnished by the city which shall give the following information:
      1.   Name and purpose of the cause for which permit is sought.
      2.   Names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization.
      3.   Period during which solicitation is to be carried on.
      4.   Whether or not any commission, fees, wages or emoluments are to be
expended in connection with solicitation and the amount thereof.
      5.   Upon being satisfied that such organization, association or
corporation is a religious, educational, charitable, patriotic or philanthropic
organization, the city clerk shall issue a permit without charge to such
organization, association or corporation to solicit in the town. Such
organization, association or corporation shall furnish all of its members,
agents or representatives conducting solicitation credentials, in writing,
stating the name of the organization, name of agent and purpose of
solicitation. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-17: BOND REQUIRED:
Any peddler, solicitor or itinerant merchant, before any license is issued to
him pursuant to this chapter, shall file with the city clerk a good and
sufficient bond in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) payable to the
city, executed by two (2) or more good and sufficient sureties or by a surety
company authorized to become surety on such bonds in the state, or in lieu
thereof, shall file a cash deposit of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) with the
city clerk. Such bond or cash deposit shall be condition that the whole or any
part of such sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be paid to any
person failing to receive a delivery of the goods ordered or services to be
performed in accordance with the terms of an order given, for the amount such
person has advanced as payment in whole or in part of any such order, and such
bond or cash deposit shall be conditioned further that any person aggrieved by
the action of any such person shall have a right of action against such bond
for the recovery of money or damages or both. Such bond shall be retained by
the city for a period of ninety (90) days after the expiration of the license
granted at the time of filing of such bond. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-18: BUSINESS LICENSE FEES:
Peddlers, solicitors and itinerant merchants shall pay a business license fee
per calendar quarter or any fraction thereof in the amount of thirty five
dollars ($35.00).
Carnivals or circuses shall pay a business license fee per day in the amount of
one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00). (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-19: PENALTIES:
Any person, natural or artificial, engaging in the operation of any business
for which a license is required by this chapter without first having obtained
such license, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon such conviction
shall be fined in a sum not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each offense, and shall also be
compelled to pay the amount of the license chargeable against that business.
Each day that said person or business operates or functions without the license
herein required shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2004-10, 11-30-2004)
4-3-20: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable and if any section,
sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter shall for any reason be held to be
invalid, illegal or unconstitutional, such decision or determination shall not
affect the validity or legality of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses,
portions or phrases of this chapter, but they shall remain in full force and
effect, it being the legislative intent of the mayor and council that this
chapter shall stand notwithstanding the invalidity of any part thereof. (Ord.
2004-10, 11-30-2004)
CHAPTER 4
STREET SALES AND SOLICITATION
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Prohibited Solicitation
4-4-3: Solicitation; Penalties
4-4-4: Solicitation; Construction And Severability
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT: The Tombstone Historic Preservation District is
a National Historic Landmark District and is bounded by Fremont, 6th, Toughnut
and 3rd Streets as described in section
10-19-1 of this Code.
OFF-PREMISES COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION: Soliciting by a business agent relating
to a possible commercial transaction.
PUBLIC AREA: An area to which the public or a substantial group of persons has
access and includes but is not limited to, alleys, bridges, buildings,
driveways, parking lots, parks, playground plazas, sidewalks and streets open
to the general public, and the doorways and entrances to buildings and
dwellings, and the grounds enclosing them.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SIDEWALK: Any surface for the use of pedestrians.
SOLICITING: To entice, encourage or request donation or transfer of money or
other thing of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor's purpose
or intended use of the money or other thing of value. This includes
solicitation on publicly owned property in connection with a commercial
business or show and includes passing out handbills.
STREET: Area dedicated to public use for public street purposes and includes
roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-24-2017)
4-4-2: PROHIBITED SOLICITATION:
   A.   No person shall do any of the following:
      1.   Intentionally or recklessly make any physical contact with or touch
another person or the person's property in the course of soliciting without the
person's consent;
      2.   Approach or follow the person being solicited, if that conduct is:
a) intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent
bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's
possession, or b) intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person
being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation or continue
to aggressively solicit from a person after the person has given a negative
response or blocks the person who has given a negative response;
      3.   Intentionally or recklessly block the safe or free passage of the
person being solicited or require the person or the driver of a vehicle, to
take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person making the
solicitation. There shall be: a) a rebuttable presumption that placing items of
personal property on a sidewalk resulting in less than the three feet (3') of
walking space is done with the intent to block passage on the sidewalk; b) a
rebuttable presumption that engaging in solicitation in the designated traffic
lane of a public roadway or on a median between designated travel lanes of a
public roadway is done with the intent to block passage on the roadway. Acts
authorized as an exercise of one's constitutional right to picket or legally
protest and acts authorized by a permit issued pursuant to title 8, chapter 5
of this Code, shall not constitute obstruction of a pedestrian or vehicular
traffic;
      4.   Intentionally or recklessly use obscene or abusive language or
gestures: a) intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the
person's possession; or b) words intended to or reasonably likely to intimidate
the person into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
   B.   Off premises commercial solicitation within the Historic Preservation
District is prohibited except that established business within the Historic
Preservation District may solicit:
      1.   Within twenty five feet (25') radius from the front door of their
own establishments, having no more than four (4) solicitors per business
ownership, or
      2.   Behind the "Road Closed" barricade on Allen Street at the
intersections of Allen Street and 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th Streets, having no more
than two (2) solicitors per business ownership.
   C.   No person engaged in solicitation may solicit within fifteen feet (15')
of another person engaged in soliciting including solicitation from the same
business or show. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-24-2017)
4-4-3: SOLICITATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of section
4-4-2 of this chapter shall be a Class 1 misdemeanor against the solicitor and/
or the proprietor for which the solicitation was made.
   B.   Any arrest or conviction under section
4-4-2 of this chapter shall be disclosed to governmental social services
agencies who request that the applicable public official be notified of such
events.
   C.   The City Clerk shall set and impose an administrative fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) against the proprietor for any
violation under this chapter. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-24-2017)
4-4-4: SOLICITATION; CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this
chapter. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is held
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such
judgment shall in no way affect or impair the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter.
   B.   Sections
4-4-2 and
4-4-3 of this chapter are not intended to create a result through enforcement
that is absurd, impossible or unreasonable. (Ord. 2017-03, 4-24-2017)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MARSHAL'S DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Creation
5-1-2: Members
5-1-3: Salaries
5-1-4: False Representation Of An Officer
5-1-5: Responsibilities
5-1-6: Duties
5-1-7: Arrest Authority
5-1-8: Bail
5-1-9: Violation Of Duties
5-1-10: Records
5-1-11: Reports
5-1-12: Fees
5-1-1: CREATION:
There shall be and is hereby created the marshal's department of the city
(hereinafter referred to as the department). Wherever the city charter uses the
words "police department" they will be interpreted as "marshal's department".
(1972 Code)
5-1-2: MEMBERS:
The members of the marshal's department shall include the city marshal and such
deputy and special marshals as may be appointed by the board of police
commissioners. (1972 Code)
5-1-3: SALARIES:
The salaries of the members of the department with the exception of the city
marshal shall be such sum as recommended by the board of police commissioners
and approved by the common council. All full time employees of the department
are considered to be salaried employees.
The mayor and the council do hereby approve the payment of wages to trainees of
the Tombstone marshal's department while participating in state certification
training and approving the use of a recruitment contract to protect the
economic interests of the city of Tombstone. (Ord. 2-2002, 5-21-2002)
5-1-4: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AN OFFICER:
Any person who shall falsely represent himself as a police officer (any
category of marshal) of this city, and shall arrest or attempt to arrest, under
such representation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more than a three hundred dollar ($300.00)
fine, or three (3) months in jail, or both. (1972 Code)
5-1-5: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The department shall:
   A.   Prevent the commission of crime and breach of the peace, suppress riots
and disorderly assemblages, prevent the commission of acts injurious to the
quiet and good order of the city or to persons or property whether private or
public.
   B.   Enforce the laws under Arizona Revised Statutes, the city charter and
this code except where the enforcing authority is delegated to someone else and
in such event the department shall cooperate by exercising its arrest authority
when requested to do so. (1972 Code)
5-1-6: DUTIES:
   A.   Maintain in a clean and orderly manner, adequate facilities for the
safekeeping and the detention, incarceration and/or impounding of persons,
animals and material objects coming under its jurisdiction.
   B.   In case of civil disasters or emergencies (fire, explosions, etc.),
assist other city and/or governmental agencies by controlling traffic and
crowds and protecting persons and property and in any other way requested and
within its capabilities.
   C.   See section
5-2-2 of this title for licensing of pets.
   D.   The department will assign personnel to attend governmental meetings,
when requested, to assist in maintaining order and to exercise arrest authority
if necessary or requested.
   E.   Members of the department will conform to and abide by the rules and
regulations prescribed by and under this chapter as well as those promulgated
by the board of police commissioners. (1972 Code)
5-1-7: ARREST AUTHORITY:
All regular members of the marshal's department are hereby delegated arrest
authority for violation of the laws under Arizona Revised Statutes, the city
charter and this code. All special deputy marshals shall exercise only that
arrest authority stipulated in their appointing document. (1972 Code)
5-1-8: BAIL:
It shall be and is hereby declared a misdemeanor for any member of the
department to release any person after he has been arrested unless such person
has been admitted to bail by the city magistrate or has deposited a sufficient
amount of money (lawful money of the United States) with the city clerk to
secure his appearance or to pay his probable fine and costs (provided, however,
that any deposit of money as aforesaid shall be for the appearance of the
defendant in court). (1972 Code)
5-1-9: VIOLATION OF DUTIES:
The city marshal shall report in writing to the board of police commissioners,
giving the facts regarding any deputy or special deputy marshal who shall
neglect or refuse to perform any of his required duties or shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter. The accused shall be examined before the board
of police commissioners and if in their judgment he is guilty of the violation,
neglect or refusal complained of, he may be fined any number of days' pay not
to exceed ten (10), or be suspended from the department any length of time not
to exceed sixty (60) days or entirely, or both such fine, suspension and/or
discharge to be at the discretion of the board of police commissioners. The
provisions of this section do not apply to violations of section
5-1-8 of this chapter; such violations will be prosecuted as misdemeanors.
(1972 Code)
5-1-10: RECORDS:
The following records shall be maintained by the department:
   A.   Duty rosters.
   B.   Police blotter.
   C.   A record of everything relegated to facilities for safekeeping and the
detention, incarceration and/or impounding of persons, animals and material
objects, and the disposition of same.
   D.   Licensing of pets, see section
5-2-2 of this title.
   E.   Receipt of all monies received from whatever source, belonging to the
city. (1972 Code)
5-1-11: REPORTS:
The department shall submit such reports as are requested by the board of
police commissioners. (1972 Code)
5-1-12: FEES:
Fees are chargeable for criminal background check before transfer of a firearm.
   A.   The marshal's department shall charge a fee, in addition to any other
fees prescribed by law, in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) to recover the
cost of criminal history background information checks which by law are
conducted before transfer of a firearm to an individual who is not a federal
firearms licensee. (Ord. 1-1994, 4-18-1994)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Licenses And Tags Generally
5-2-3: Vaccination Required
5-2-4: Dogs At Large Prohibited
5-2-5: Confinement Of Animals In A Motor Vehicle
5-2-6: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-7: Dogs And Cats In City Parks Prohibited
5-2-8: Noisy Animals And Fowl
5-2-9: Liability For Dog Bites
5-2-10: Dogs On Leash Biting A Person
5-2-11: Keeping Other Than Domesticated Pets
5-2-12: Public Health And Nuisance
5-2-13: Violation
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter unless the context otherwise requires:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, not under the control of the owner, or
other persons acting for the owner.
CAT: A member of the felidae family.
CHEMICAL IMMOBILIZATION: Any humane use of a tranquilizer to immobilize any
animal for capture, relocation, or treatment.
COLLAR: A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the neck and or
shoulders of a dog or cat to which a license tag must be affixed.
DOG: A member of canidae family.
OWNER: Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining a dog
or cat.
POUND, ANIMAL SHELTER, OR ANIMAL CONTROL CENTER: Any establishment authorized
by the city for the confinement, maintenance, safekeeping and control of
animals that come into the custody of the city.
VACCINATION: An antirabies vaccination using a type of vaccine approved by the
state veterinarian.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal of the order carnivora that has a propensity to
attack, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
without provocation, or that has been so declared after a hearing before a
justice of the peace or a city magistrate.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animals which are non domesticated or the offspring of any non
domesticated animals crossbred to a domestic animal are considered to be wild
animals and will be managed as wild animals in the event of a bite.
WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT: The departments of game and fish or an agent will act to
humanely capture, relocate, monitor or destroy wildlife for the interest of
public and animal safety. (1972 Code)
5-2-2: LICENSES AND TAGS GENERALLY:
   A.   All dogs and cats kept, harbored or maintained in the city must be
licensed and registered if over four (4) months of age. Dog and cat licenses
shall be issued by the marshal's office upon payment of license fees. All
licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. The owner shall state, at
the time application is made for such license his/her name and address,
telephone number, the name, breed, color, sex and if applicable proof of spay
or neuter of each dog and cat owned or kept by him/her.
   B.   If the license is not obtained by the owner prior to April 1 of any
year, or within sixty (60) days of the date of the first possession of any dog
or cat, or upon its becoming four (4) months old or within sixty (60) days from
the arrival of the dog or cat in the city, the license payment shall be deemed
delinquent and a penalty as provided in the fee schedule shall be paid.
   C.   A guide dog belonging to a blind person or to any bona fide nonprofit
organization which is in the business of breeding, raising or training dogs
that are used for guiding the blind shall not be required to be licensed. Also,
any disabled person who owns a dog which is specifically trained and used to
guide or assist that person shall not be required to pay a dog license fee.
   D.   Each dog licensed under the terms of this chapter shall receive, at the
time of licensing, a tag on which shall be inscribed the name of the city, the
number of the license and the year in which it expires. The tag shall be
attached to a collar, harness or other device which shall be worn by the dog at
all times except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   E.   Any person who knowingly fails within fifteen (15) days after written
notification from the marshal's office to obtain a license for a dog or cat
required to be licensed, or counterfeits an official tag, or removes such tag
from any dog or cat for the purpose of intentional and malicious mischief or
places a tag upon a dog or cat unless the tag was issued for that particular
dog or cat is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   F.   Whenever the ownership of a dog or cat has been changed, the new owner
shall secure a transfer of license to such owner. A transfer fee shall be paid
as prescribed in the fee schedule.
   G.   Dogs, while being used for hunting, or dogs and cats while being
exhibited at shows or dogs while engaged in races approved by the Arizona
racing commission and such dogs or cats while being transported to and from
such events need not have the license tag affixed to the animal, provided that
the animals are properly vaccinated and licensed.
   H.   The marshal's office can apprehend and impound any dog or cat found
without a current valid license tag. (1972 Code)
5-2-3: VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Before a license is issued for any dog or cat, the owner must present a
vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian stating the owner's name and
address and giving the dog's or cat's description, date of the vaccination and
type, manufacturer and serial number of the vaccine and date the vaccination is
due. A duplicate of each rabies vaccination certificate issued shall be
transmitted to the city on or before the tenth day of the month following the
month during which the dog or cat was vaccinated. No dog or cat shall be
licensed unless it is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and regulations promulgated hereunder.
   B.   A dog or cat vaccinated in any other place prior to entry into the city
may be licensed in the city provided that at the time of licensing, the owner
of such dog or cat presents a vaccination certificate, signed by a veterinarian
licensed to practice in that place or a veterinarian employed by a governmental
agency in that place, stating the owner's name and address and giving the dog's
or cat's description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer provisions of
this chapter and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   C.   The marshal's office shall make provisions for low cost vaccination
clinics as deemed necessary; a veterinarian shall perform the vaccination.
   D.   If a dog or cat is impounded and found to be unvaccinated, the
marshal's office is hereby authorized to cause such dog or cat to be vaccinated
at a cost to be borne by the owner. A veterinarian, who shall issue a
certificate of vaccination, shall perform the vaccination.
   E.   All vaccination requirements will conform automatically to changes
contained in the compendium of animal rabies control vaccine prepared by the
National Association of Public Health Veterinarians, Inc. (1972 Code)
5-2-4: DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow such animals to be at
large in the city limits. Cats are considered to be free roaming animals unless
they become a nuisance and then may be captured.
   B.   A dog shall not be deemed at large:
      1.   If said dog is restrained by a leash, chain, rope or cord of not
more than ten feet (10') in length and of sufficient strength to control the
action of said dog;
      2.   While said dog is actively engaged in obedience training,
accompanied by and under the control of his/her owner or trainer, provided that
the person training said dog has, in his/her possession, a leash, chain, rope,
or cord of not more than ten feet (10') in length and of sufficient strength to
control said dog. Further, that said dog is actually enrolled in or has
graduated from an obedience training school;
      3.   While said dog is being used for hunting purposes;
      4.   While said dog is being exhibited at any approved animal show;
      5.   While said dog is engaged in races approved by the Arizona racing
commission;
      6.   While on the owners property, which physically confines the dog to
the property.
   C.   No person in charge of any dog shall permit such dog in a public park
or upon any public school property unless the dog is physically restrained by a
leash, chain, rope or cord, enclosed in a car, cage or similar enclosure, or
being exhibited or trained at a recognized and approved public school or park
sponsored event. (1972 Code)
5-2-5: CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE:
   A.   Definitions: In this section only, unless the context otherwise
requires:
    ANIMAL: All species of mammals, except humans and all species of birds.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: Any establishment maintained by the city or by any nonprofit
organization established and maintained for the confinement, maintenance and
relief of suffering of animals that come into their custody.
   HUMANE OFFICER: The animal control officer appointed by the mayor and common
council of the city, the city marshal, and the deputy marshals of the city and
any other peace officer of the state of Arizona.
   B.   Prohibited: No person having charge or custody of an animal, as owner,
caretaker, or otherwise, shall place or confine such animal or allow such
animal to be placed or confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such
conditions or for such a period of time as may endanger the health or well
being of such animal due to heat, lack of food or drink, or such other
circumstances as may reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or
death.
   C.   Responsibility Of Vehicle Owner: No person having dominion or control
over a motor vehicle, as owner or otherwise, shall place or confine an animal
or allow an animal to be placed or confined or to remain in a motor vehicle
under such conditions or for such periods of time as may endanger the health or
well being of such animal due to heat, lack of food or drink, or such other
circumstances as may reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or
death.
   D.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
transportation of horses, cattle, sheep, poultry or other agricultural
livestock in trailers or other vehicles designed and constructed for such
purpose.
   E.   Authority: A peace officer or a humane officer who finds an animal in a
motor vehicle in violation of this section may break and enter the motor
vehicle if necessary to remove the animal and shall not be liable for damages
to property caused by the use of reasonable force to remove the animal. The
officer removing the animal shall take the animal to an animal shelter or other
place of safekeeping and shall, in the event the person having custody cannot
be otherwise contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor vehicle a
written notice bearing his name and office and the address where the animal may
be claimed by the owner thereof. The animal will be surrendered to the owner if
the owner claims the animal within ten (10) days from the time the animal was
removed from the motor vehicle and pays all reasonable charges that have
accrued for the maintenance of the animal. If the owner fails to claim the
animal within five (5) days after the removal from the motor vehicle, the
person or animal shelter having custody of the animal will make reasonable
effort to contact the owner and give notice that the animal is in their custody
and may be reclaimed by the owner upon payment of reasonable maintenance
charges. In the event the owner cannot be contacted, or expresses no interest
in reclaiming the animal within five (5) days after contact or efforts to
contact, the person or animal shelter having custody of the animal may dispose
of the animal in any reasonably humane manner.
   F.   Penalty: A person who violates any provision of this section is guilty
of a class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days, or
both. (Ord. 1-1985, 4-16-1985)
5-2-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise
authorized by law, such person recklessly:
      1.   Subjects any animal under human custody or control of another
without either legal privilege or consent of the owner.
      2.   Kills, maims or wounds any animal under the custody or control of
another without either legal privilege or consent of the owner.
   B.   Any person who abandons an animal, or drops or leaves an animal on a
street, road or highway, in a public place or on private property with the
intent to abandon is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor. An animal is also
abandoned when the owner, possessor or custodian fails to claim it from a
boarding facility or veterinarian within five (5) days of the date a registered
letter is received by such person from the boarding facility or veterinarian
requesting that the owner, possessor or custodian reclaim the animal.
   C.   Any person who conducts a shooting event at which any person uses a
firearm to shoot, kill or wound a live bird or animal that is tied, staked out,
caged held or restrained in any manner and used as a target to be fired at in
such event is guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor.
   D.   Any person owning or having care control or custody of any animal shall
ensure:
      1.   That the animal receives daily, food that is free from contamination
and is of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to maintain the animal in
good health.
      2.   That potable water is accessible to the animal at all times, either
free flowing or in a clean receptacle.
      3.   That all animals have convenient access to natural or artificial
shelter throughout the year. Any such artificial shelter shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the animal from injury and from
the elements and of sufficient size to permit the animal to enter, stand, turn
around and lie down in a natural manner. Any shelter which does not protect the
animal from temperature extremes or precipitation, or which does not provide
adequate ventilation or drainage, is in violation of this chapter. Any shelter,
all bedding and any space accessible to the animal shall be maintained in a
manner which minimizes the risk of the animal contracting disease, being
injured, or becoming infested with parasites.
      4.   That the animal receives care and medical treatment for debilitating
injuries, parasites and disease, sufficient to maintain the animal in good
health and minimize suffering.
      5.   That the animal is given adequate exercise space either:
         a.   Within an enclosure that shall be constructed of material and in
a manner to minimize the risk of injury to the animal and shall encompass
sufficient usable space to keep the animal in good condition;
         b.   On a tie out, consisting of a chain, leash, wire cable or similar
restraint attached to a swivel or pulley. Tie outs shall be so located as to
keep the animal exclusively on the secured premises. Tie outs shall be so
located that they cannot become entangled with other objects. Collars used to
attach an animal to a tie out shall not be of a choke type. No tie out shall
employ a restraint which is less than ten feet (10') in length. (1972 Code)
5-2-7: DOGS AND CATS IN CITY PARKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Dogs and cats are prohibited from city park, Landham park and city
cemeteries.
   B.   Dogs and cats are not prohibited from other city parks pursuant to this
section shall abide by the requirements established in section
5-2-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Dogs and cats being exhibited in any approved animal show are exempt
from this section. Pursuant to this section exhibitors shall abide by the
requirements established in this chapter.
   D.   Certified guide dogs that assist blind and or disabled people are
exempt from this section. (Ord., 03)
5-2-8: NOISY ANIMALS AND FOWL:
A person is lawfully in or on the private property of the owner of a dog within
the meaning of this chapter when an invitee or guest, or when in the
performance of a duty imposed upon him by law of the state or United States, or
by ordinances of a municipality, in which such property is located. (Ord., 03)
5-2-9: LIABILITY FOR DOG BITES:
   A.   The owner of a dog which bites a person when the person is in or on a
public place or lawfully in or on a private place, including the property of
the owner of the dog, is liable for damages suffered by the person bitten,
regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the owner's knowledge of its
viciousness.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall permit the bringing of an action for
damages against any governmental agency using a dog in military or police work
if the bite occurred while the dog was defending itself from a harassing or
provoking act, or assisting an employee of the agency in any of the following:
      1.   In the apprehension or holding of a suspect where the employee has a
reasonable suspicion of the suspect's involvement in criminal activity;
      2.   In the investigation of a crime or possible crime;
      3.   In the execution of a warrant.
      4.   In the defense of a peace officer or another person.
   C.   Subsection B of this section shall not apply in any case where the
victim of the bite was not a party to, nor a participant in, nor suspected to
be a party to or a participant in the act that prompted the use of the dog in
the military or police work.
   D.   Subsection B of this section shall apply only where a governmental
agency using a dog in military or police work has adopted a written policy on
the necessary and appropriate use of a dog for the police or military work
enumerated in subsection B of this section. (Ord., 03)
5-2-10: DOGS ON LEASH BITING A PERSON:
Should a dog on a leash, bite any person while under control of the owner or
custodian when on public property, the owner will forfeit his privilege to take
the dog on public property. The owner will be notified by the marshal of the
forfeiture of his privilege to have the dog on public property. If such dog is
not vaccinated, it will be impounded in accordance with section
5-2-1 of this chapter. (1972 Code)
5-2-11: KEEPING OTHER THAN DOMESTICATED PETS:
Animals or fowl other than domesticated household pets as defined above will
not be allowed within the corporate limits of the city unless one of the
exceptions prevail:
   A.   The confine in which the animal or fowl is kept is an areca
specifically zoned to provide for barnyard pets.
   B.   The confine in which the animal or fowl is kept is in an area in which
a variance has been granted for the same by the board of adjustments and
appeals.
   C.   The confine in which the animal or fowl is kept is not in a subdivided
portion of the city.
   D.   The animals or fowl are brought into the corporate limits by their
owner for a pageant, show, demonstration, or rodeo for a specific period of
time. Permission for this must be obtained from the common council or
designated authority prior to the arrival of the animals or fowl. The length of
time for such a permit issued shall not exceed five (5) days.
   E.   No animal or fowl will be stabled or domiciled in the subdivided
portion of the city unless, covered by subsection A, B, C, or D of this
section. This does not preclude the temporary riding or parking of animals in
the subdivided portions of the city provided the same does not constitute a
public nuisance.
   F.   Animals or fowl being transported through the city on U.S. highways.
   G.   In cases where the protective covenant of a subdivided area
specifically provides for control of animals and fowl on private property
within the subdivision, these provisions will take precedence over subsection B
of this section. (Ord. 75-76-01, 9-15-1975)
   H.   Barnyard domestic pets may be stabled or kept in the unsubdivided
portion of the city providing the following restrictions and/or criteria are
adhered to:
      1.   An annual license shall be obtained in accordance with section
5-2-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Licensee shall adhere to the public health and nuisance provisions
of section
5-2-12 of this chapter and to the Cochise County rules and regulations
governing domestic pets.
      3.   The minimum area for the keeping of barnyard domestic pets is as
follows:
         a.   Horses, burros, mules or cattle, two (2) head per one acre,
unless hand fed and corralled, one acre minimum.
         b.   Sheep, goats, ten (10) head per one acre minimum.
         c.   Poultry, one thousand (1,000) square feet per each one hundred
(100) fowl.
         d.   Rabbits, one thousand (1,000) square feet per each one hundred
(100) animals.
      4.   Protection from the weather element must be provided prior to
issuance of a license.
      5.   No outdoor corral or holding pen shall be constructed within two
hundred feet (200') of a building used for human habitation or adjacent
property unless the occupant and owner thereof had indicated in writing that he
had no objection.
      6.   A site plan shall be presented as part of the license application
and include, but not limited to, building and corral locations.
      7.   A city building permit must be obtained in accordance with title 3,
chapter 1 of this code.
      8.   Storage of hay or straw shall be in accordance with title 6, chapter
3 of this code. (Ord. 2-2004, 5-18-2004)
5-2-12: PUBLIC HEALTH AND NUISANCE:
   A.   Any time that a domesticated animal or fowl or a house pet becomes
detrimental to the public health or creates a nuisance through noise, odor and/
or attracting flies, and a complaint is registered with the common council by
offended residents, the common council may order the animal or fowl removed
from within the city limits. In case the nuisance is not abated as directed the
marshal shall report the fact to the city attorney, who shall immediately
commence legal proceedings to abate such nuisance. (1972 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having custody of any dog
to fail to immediately remove and dispose of in a sanitary manner any solid
waste deposited by such dog on public property or deposited upon private
property without the consent of the person in control of the property. This
subsection shall not apply to blind persons, persons with mobility
disabilities, police offices or other law enforcement officers accompanied by
police dogs while on an emergency. A violation of this subsection shall be a
civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of up to two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 2021-1, 3-9-2021)
5-2-13: VIOLATION:
Unless a penalty for the violation of this chapter has been otherwise specified
herein, any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished for each offense by a
fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment in the city jail for a term of not less
than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Curfew
5-3-3: Exceptions
5-3-4: Parental Responsibility
5-3-5: Violations
5-3-6: Enforcement
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. This term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily harm or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
JUVENILE: Any person who has not yet reached eighteen (18) years of age.
PARENT: A. Any natural, adoptive, or stepparent of a juvenile.
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have custody of the minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place which the public or a substantial group of the public
has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and the
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
REMAIN: A. Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or
the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises. (Ord. 028-97,
8-18-1997)
5-3-2: CURFEW:
It is unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to be or
remain in, about or upon any place within the unincorporated area of Cochise
County other than his or her residence or usual place of abode, during the
following hours:
Sunday through Thursday: From ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
A.M.
Friday and Saturday: From twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. (Ord. 028-97, 8-18-1997; amd. Ord. 76-77-03)
5-3-3: EXCEPTIONS:
It is a defense to prosecution under sections
5-3-2 and
5-3-4 of this chapter that:
   A.   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or an adult having
supervisorial custody of that minor.
   B.   The minor is on an emergency errand.
   C.   The minor has been specifically directed to the location on reasonable,
legitimate business or some other activity by the parent, guardian or adult
having supervisorial custody.
   D.   The minor is engaged in a lawful occupation or is in the process of
traveling directly to or from the site of such occupation.
   E.   The minor, with the prior permission of the parent, guardian or adult
having supervisorial authority over the minor is engaged in reasonable,
legitimate and specific business and/or activity, including a function
sponsored by a school, governmental entity, religious organization,
recreational or athletic association or civil or political organization, or in
traveling directly to or from any such function.
   F.   The minor is legally emancipated by marriage or otherwise.
   G.   The minor, with the consent of the parent, guardian or adult having
supervisorial authority over the minor, is in a motor vehicle involved in
interstate travel.
   H.   The minor is on the sidewalk abutting the property where the minor
resides or on either side of or across the street from where the minor resides
and the adult owner or resident of the property consents to the minor's
presence.
   I.   The minor is exercising first amendment rights, such as free exercise
of religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly, or other rights
protected by the United States constitution. (Ord. 028-97, 8-18-1997)
5-3-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It is unlawful for any parent or guardian or any adult having supervisorial
custody of a minor:
   A.   Knowingly or by the exercise of negligent oversight, to allow the minor
to violate this ordinance.
   B.   To fail or refuse to take custody of the minor upon a demand by a law
enforcement officer. (Ord. 028-97, 8-18-1997; amd. Ord. 76-77-03)
5-3-5: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates or attempts to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class 1 misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00),
by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both. Any city magistrate who
accepts a guilty plea for a violation of section 130.76(B) or who, after trial,
finds a person guilty of a violation of this chapter, may sentence the
convicted person, together with any other fines, to jail time, probation,
community service or other lawful sentence that the court deems just and
proper. (Ord., 2003)
5-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter is intended to reinforce the exercise of parental responsibility,
rather than attempt to transfer such authority to either the juvenile or adult
criminal justice systems. Accordingly, parental or custodial enforcement
remains a preferred alternative to citation or arrest. This discretion does not
limit the authority of a peace officer to issue a citation or to make an
arrest. (Ord. 028-97, 8-18-1997)
CHAPTER 4
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Nuisances Prohibited
5-4-2: Open Mine Shafts; Prospect Holes; Open Excavations
5-4-3: Firecrackers; Fireworks
5-4-4: Indecent Exposure
5-4-5: Obscene Conduct
5-4-6: Prohibiting Of Noise And Exceptions
5-4-7: Hunting And Trapping Prohibited
5-4-8: Cracking Of Whips In A Public Place
5-4-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owners, lessees or occupants of premises in this
city to let any nuisance exist, such as partly torn down buildings, adobe
walls, tin cans or any obstruction which the council declares a nuisance on
said premises. Owners, lessees or occupants of premises to be notified by the
marshal to abate or remove the nuisance within ten (10) days or work started
thereon, and if efforts have not been made in the specified time, the marshal
shall cause same to be removed and the expense incurred shall be levied against
said property and placed on the city tax roll for the next fiscal year. (Ord.
112, 8-11-1941)
5-4-2: OPEN MINE SHAFTS; PROSPECT HOLES; OPEN EXCAVATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, contractor, prospector, utility
company, or individual within the corporate limits of the city, to have a mine
shaft, prospect hole, or other excavation endangering life and/or safety that
are not securely covered, fenced, or protected by other appropriate safeguards
when not in operation; and securely guarded when in operation. Unauthorized
entry of mines and removal of warning signs is prohibited. Any violating
responsible party or parties shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day such
violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 76-
77-05, 2-9-1977)
5-4-3: FIRECRACKERS; FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, set off or explode any
firecrackers, cannon crackers, sky rockets, roman candles, pinwheels or other
kinds or fireworks, within the city. (Ord. 78, 6-17-1910)
5-4-4: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expose his or her genital or anus or for
a woman to expose the areola or nipple of her breast or breasts while another
person is present, and the defendant is reckless about whether such other
person, as a reasonable person, would be offended or alarmed by the act. (Ord.
10-1996, 8-6-1996)
5-4-5: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any public street,
alley or place or in any place open to public view within the limits of the
city. (Ord. 51, 7-18-1883)
5-4-6: PROHIBITING OF NOISE AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    "A" BAND LEVEL: The total sound level of all noise as measured with a sound
level meter using A-weighting network. The unit is the dB(A).
   AMBIENT NOISE: The all encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources, near and
far. For the purpose of this chapter, ambient noise level is the level obtained
when the noise level is averaged over a period of fifteen (15) minutes without
inclusion of noise from isolated identifiable sources, at the location and time
of day near that at which a comparison is to be made. Averaging may be done by
instrumental analysis in accordance with American national standards S13-1971,
or may be done manually as follows:
      1.   Observe a sound level meter for five (5) seconds and record the best
estimate of central tendency of the indicator needle, and the highest and
lowest indications.
      2.   Repeat the observations as many times as necessary to ensure that
observations are made at the beginning and the end of the fifteen (15) minute
averaging period and that there are at least as many additional observations as
there are decibels between the highest high indication and the lowest low
indication.
      3.   Calculate the arithmetical average of the observed central tendency
indications.
   BUSINESS: Either a corporation, limited liability corporation, partnership,
any other type of fictitious person or in the event the business is not owned
by a fictitious entity, the individual owners. A business does not mean a
governmental agency or entity.
   DECIBEL: A sound pressure that is twenty (20) times the logarithm to the
base-10 of the ratio of the pressure of sound to the reference pressure, 2 x
10-5 Newton/meter2.
   DWELLING: Building, which is designed for residential purposes with the
exception of any residential unit located within a hotel, mobile home or RV
park, or other transitory lodging development within the limits of the city of
Tombstone.
   EXCESSIVE NOISE: The presence of sound as measured by standard testing
devices as established by noise rules adopted by department of health (DOH) of
a volume or in quantities which unreasonably interferes with comfortable
enjoyment of life and property in such areas of city limits as are affected
thereby, including a device for reproducing sound if sound produced is audible
at a distance of fifty feet (50') from device. Any such device which produces a
sound level of seventy (70) decibels or more on the "A" scale for a period of
fifteen (15) minutes or longer, at fifty feet (50'), shall be deemed to be a
per se violation of the noise ordinance.
   FREQUENCY: "Frequency" of a function periodic in time shall mean the
reciprocal of the primitive period. The unit is the hertz and shall be
specified.
   IMPULSE NOISE: A noise of short duration, usually less than one second, with
an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
   MICROBAR: A unit of pressure commonly used in acoustics and is equal to one
dyne per square centimeter.
   PERIOD: "Period" of a periodic quantity shall mean the smallest increment of
time for which the function repeats itself.
   PERIODIC QUANTITY: Oscillating quantity, the values of which recur for equal
increments of time.
   PURE TONE NOISE: Any noise which is distinctly audible as a single pitch
(frequency) or set of pitches as determined by an enforcement officer.
   SOUND LEVEL: "Sound level" (noise level), in decibels (dB) is the sound
measured with the A-weighting and slow response by a sound level meter.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument including a microphone, an amplifier, an
output meter, and frequency weighting networks for the measurement of sound
levels which satisfies the pertinent requirements in American standard
specifications for sound level meters S1.4-1971 or the most recent revision
thereof.
   UNREASONABLE NOISE: Noise that a reasonable person of normal sensibilities
would find excessive, disorderly, loud, or unnecessary and that can be heard at
least fifty feet (50') from the business or residence.
   B.   Maximum Permissible Sound Levels: No person shall conduct or permit any
activity that produces a dB(A) beyond that person's property line or on public
property which exceeds the levels specified in table 1 of this section. Where
property is used for both residential and commercial purposes, the residential
sound levels shall be used only for measurements made on the portion of the
property used solely for residential purposes. This section shall not apply
where the person responsible for such noise is a participant in or spectator at
any exhibition, performance, amusement, attraction, or event authorized or
sponsored by the city, or any public entity, or school within the city,
provided, however, that the person causing the noise is not purposely intending
to annoy, harass or scare any person or animal within city limits of Tombstone.
      TABLE 1
 
Use Of The Property Receiving The Sound
Based On The Department Of Health (DOH) "A" Scale
Time        7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M. 7:01 P.M. to 6:59 A.M.
Residential 70 dB(A)               55 dB(A)
Commercial  70 dB(A)               60 dB(A)
Industrial  70 dB(A)               70 dB(A)
 
   C.   Other Noises Prohibited; Standards For Excessive Noise: Some sounds may
be such that they are not measurable by the sound level meter or may not exceed
the limits set forth in subsection B of this section, but nonetheless may be
excessive and may disturb the peace and quiet of a neighborhood or person.
Noises prohibited by this subsection are in violation of this chapter
notwithstanding the fact that there is no apparent violation of subsection B of
this section. The following activities are prohibited if they produce plainly
audible sound beyond the property line of the property on which they are
conducted or upon public property and they disturb the peace and quiet of a
neighborhood or person:
      1.   Allowing or causing any continuous or intermittent noise that
persists for a period of at least fifteen (15) minutes and which is caused by
using, operating or permitting to be played any radio, television, tape deck,
record player, amplifier, musical instrument, or instrument, machine or device
used for the production, reproduction or emission of sound;
      2.   Creating or allowing a loud, disturbing noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle;
      3.   Owning, possessing, harboring or permitting any animal or bird which
frequently or for continuous duration howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes
other sounds. Any peace officer or any animal control officer is hereby
authorized to issue citations to owners for any violation of this subsection;
      4.   Allowing or causing any shouting, yelling, screaming or any other
form of raucous vocalization by a person or group of people;
      5.   Any noise created by construction activities including, but not
limited to, repair, remodeling, demolition, drilling, woodcutting or excavation
work conducted from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. through sunrise Mondays through
Saturdays, and at any time on Sundays and legal holidays; except that a person
may engage in the above listed activities at that person's own residence or
business from sunrise through eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. Mondays through
Saturdays, and between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on
Sundays or legal holidays.
   D.   General Exemptions: The following activities are exempted from the
provisions of subsections B and C of this section:
      1.   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident or natural disaster; to restore public utilities; or
to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
      2.   Emergency vehicles or sound made to alert persons to the existence
of an emergency, danger or attempted crime;
      3.   Activities or operations of governmental units, agencies or agents
of the city, county or state governments, including, but not limited to,
vehicles operated by a licensed commercial or industrial solid waste management
service, utility companies, CATV companies and other similar type companies as
well as commercial vehicles used for the delivery of goods, merchandise and
parcels (mail) provided that the noise levels do not exceed seventy five (75)
decibels at a distance of twenty five feet (25') during stationary operation;
      4.   Parades, concerts, festivals, fairs, exhibition, performance,
amusement, attraction or event authorized or sponsored by the city, public
entity, or school within the city or similar activities that remain within any
sound limits and approved by the city;
      5.   Athletic, musical or cultural activities or events (including
practices and rehearsals) conducted by or under the auspices of public or
private schools;
      6.   Church bells or chimes;
      7.   Heating and cooling equipment when it is functioning in accordance
with manufacturer's specifications and is in properly operating condition;
      8.   Any other activity to the extent a regulation has been preempted by
State or Federal law.
   E.   Temporary Exemptions: The City Council may authorize the City Clerk to
grant a temporary exemption from the maximum permissible sound levels
established by this section if such temporary exemption would be in the public
interest and there is no feasible and prudent alternative to the activity, or
the method of conducting the activity, for which the temporary exemption is
sought. A temporary exemption must be in writing and signed by the City Clerk
and must set forth the name of the party granted the exemption, the location of
the private or public property for which it is authorized, the date(s) and time
(s) for which it is effective and the dB(A) level(s) authorized. A temporary
exemption may be granted only for the period of time that is reasonably
necessary to conduct the activity, which in no case may exceed thirty (30)
days. The following factors shall be considered by the City Council in
determining whether to grant a temporary exemption:
      1.   The balancing of the hardship to the applicant, the community and
other persons in not granting the variance against the adverse impact on the
health, safety and welfare of persons adversely affected and any other adverse
effects of the granting of the variance;
      2.   The nearness of any residence or business property, or any other use
which would be adversely affected by sound in excess of the limits prescribed
by this section;
      3.   The level of the sound to be generated by the event or activity;
      4.   Whether the type of sound to be produced by the event or activity is
usual or unusual for the location or area for which the variance is requested;
      5.   The density of population of the area in which the event or activity
is to take place;
      6.   The time of day or night which the activity or event will take
place;
      7.   The nature of the sound to be produced, including, but not limited
to, whether the sound will be steady, intermittent, impulsive or repetitive.
   F.   Variances: Persons wishing to continue activities which commenced prior
to this section and which create noise in excess of the permitted levels may
seek a variance from the City Council. Such a variance may be granted if the
council finds that strict application of this section would cause a hardship
and that there is no reasonable and prudent alternative method of engaging in
the activity.
   G.   Noisy Vehicles, Motors Prohibited: No person may use any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle, engine or motor of whatever size, stationary or
moving, instrument, device or thing, in such a manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   H.   Mufflers Required On Mechanical Devices; Cutouts Prohibited: No person
may operate any mechanical device operated by gasoline, or otherwise, without
having a muffler, in good working order and in constant operation, to prevent
excessive or unusual noise and smoke; and no person shall use a muffler cutout,
bypass or similar device.
   I.   Noise By Street Vendors, Advertisers: No person may produce any sound
in connection with the sale, advertising or display of merchandise from a
pushcart, bicycle or vehicle:
      1.   In excess of seventy (70) dB(A), measured at a distance of fifty
feet (50') from the pushcart, vehicle or bicycle; or
      2.   While such pushcart, bicycle or vehicle is not in motion.
   J.   Persons Responsible For Noise Violations: If the person responsible for
an activity that violates this section cannot be determined, the owner, lessee
or occupant of the property on which the activity is located shall be deemed
responsible for the violation.
   K.   Sound Amplification Systems In Vehicles: Noise from sound amplification
systems in vehicles cannot be practically regulated by imposing decibel limits
as decibel measurements are difficult to obtain from moving vehicles. Noises
prohibited by this subsection are in violation of this section notwithstanding
the fact that there is no apparent violation of subsection B of this section.
      1.   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle in such a manner
or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the peace and quiet of any person or
neighborhood in the vicinity.
      2.   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle in such a manner
that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50'), or in such
a manner that it causes a person to be aware of vibration accompanying the
sound at a distance of fifty feet (50').
   L.   Penalty: Any person found responsible under this section for a
violation under this chapter shall pay a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first offense, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
offense and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each subsequent offense.
   M.   Enforcement: The Tombstone marshal's department and city attorney are
authorized to enforce the provisions of this section. A complaining member of
the public shall not necessarily be required to appear in court before a
violator may be found responsible for a violation of this section. (Ord. 2013-
10, 4-30-2013)
5-4-7: HUNTING AND TRAPPING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used herein, the following words shall have the meaning
described below:
    HUNT: To pursue, chase, harass, capture, possess, injure or kill any
wildlife, big game, upland game, waterfowl or small game using any kind of
firearm, handgun, rifle, muzzleloader gun or rifle, pellet gun, BB gun, dart
gun, blowgun, bow and arrow, crossbow, archery equipment, slingshot, or any
other device designed and used or used to propel a projectile of any nature.
   WILD: In reference to animals, mammals, reptiles, amphibians and birds,
those species that are normally found in a state of nature.
   WILDLIFE: All wild animals, wild mammals, wild birds and the nests or eggs
thereof, reptiles, amphibians and other types of wildlife as defined by Arizona
Revised Statutes section 17-101 or otherwise by the Arizona game and fish
department. Wildlife does not include small rodents such as mice or rats.
   B.   Unlawful: Except as provided by subsection C of this section, it shall
be unlawful for any person to hunt, trap, snare or use, for the purposes of
trapping, capturing or hunting any wildlife, in any area within the confines of
the city limits of the city of Tombstone, whether on public or private land,
any kind of firearm, handgun, rifle, muzzleloader gun or rifle, pellet gun, air
gun, BB gun, dart gun, blowgun, spring gun, bow and arrow, crossbow, or any
kind of archery equipment, sling, slingshot, or any other device designed and
used or used to propel a projectile of any nature.
   C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Representatives of the city, county, state or federal governments
who may, in the course of their duties, be required to use a trap to trap,
catch, snare, kill or otherwise restrain the free movement of any wildlife for
humane or other authorized purposes, or to such representatives, or to
scientists intending to identify animals, wildlife or birds and then returning
them to their natural environment.
      2.   Any peace officer engaged in the discharge of his or her official
duties, nor to any persons lawfully employed by the marshal's office to
eliminate hazards or nuisance to the public health and welfare.
      3.   Mousetraps and bat traps used for the trapping or killing within the
Tombstone city limits of those species of small rodents and mammals that
commonly carry diseases.
   D.   Violations: Any person that violates this section shall be guilty of a
class one misdemeanor. In addition to all other penalties, traps and weapons
used in violation of this chapter shall be confiscated by and forfeited to the
city of Tombstone.
   E.   Severability: Any portion of this chapter that is determined to be
unenforceable or substantially conflict with the Arizona Revised Statutes shall
not affect the rest of the chapter for the purpose of regulation and
enforcement. The remaining provisions of this chapter shall be enforced as if
the remaining provisions of the chapter were enforceable. (Ord. 2017-01, 1-10-
2017)
5-4-8: CRACKING OF WHIPS IN A PUBLIC PLACE:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section shall mean:
 
        A device, instrument, material ,or substance, whether animate or inanimate,
WEAPON: which in the manner it is used or is intended to be used is known to be capable
        of producing death or serious bodily injury.
        A pliant, flexible instrument, such as a flexible rod or thong or lash attached
        to a handle used for flogging or beating a person and/or used to create a sharp
WHIP:   “crack” sound for directing or herding animals. The definition of whip shall
        include all variations of whips, including but not limited to: bullwhip, stock
        whip, yard whip, cattle drafter, bullock-whip, Raman whip, Rose whip, Florida
        cow whip, signal whip, snake whip, equestrian whips, buggy whip, and Qilinbian.
 
   B.   Use Of Whip: No person shall crack or so use a whip in the Tombstone
Historic District without a valid permit issued from the city or use such a
whip as to annoy, interfere with or endanger a person or excite a horse other
than a horse which he is using or to entice, encourage or request donation or
transfer of money or other thing of value from another person as further
described in violation of this chapter of the Tombstone City Code.
   C.   Violation: Violation of this provision is a Class 1 misdemeanor. (Ord.
2020-01, 1-24-2020)
CHAPTER 5
DEADLY WEAPONS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Discharge Of A Firearm On Public Property Within The Historic
Preservation District
5-5-2: Special Permit To Discharge Firearm On Public Property Within The
Tombstone Historic Preservation District
5-5-3: Regulations Governing Reenactments Involving Firearms
5-5-4: Severability
5-5-5: Immunity
5-5-1: DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM ON PUBLIC PROPERTY WITHIN THE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
Except as authorized by law, it is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge
a firearm on public property within the city of Tombstone historic preservation
district as set forth under Arizona Revised Statutes section 13-3107, and
including the discharge of blanks, except by special permit from the city of
Tombstone marshal. The following are exempt from this prohibition:
   A.   Performances or historical reenactments under conditions of a permit
issued by the city;
   B.   Ceremonies conducted by the American Legion and other members of honor
or ceremonial guard. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-12-2016)
5-5-2: SPECIAL PERMIT TO DISCHARGE FIREARM ON PUBLIC PROPERTY WITHIN THE
TOMBSTONE HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Firearm Permits For Entertainment Purposes: Coordinators or solo
performers of reenactments and other forms of entertainment that discharge
firearm(s) on public property within the city of Tombstone historic
preservation district as defined under Arizona law shall be required to obtain
a special permit from the Tombstone marshal's office. Groups, organizations or
solo performers that intend on performing reenactments on a continuous and
consistent basis shall only have to apply once. However, the coordinators shall
be required to update the names of the armorers and performers as they are
changed, added or removed or replaced.
   B.   Permit Registration Requirements:
      1.   The reenactment group owner, coordinator or person in charge, or
solo performer, shall provide to the Tombstone marshal's office:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the armorer responsible
for the event, or reenactment, or entertainment group. In the case of a sole
performer, he or she shall comply with subsection B1b of this section;
         b.   A list of every person possessing a firearm who intends to
participate in a reenactment or other form of entertainment and discharge the
firearm on public property within the city of Tombstone historic preservation
district.
      2.   As to each person listed, the coordinator or solo performer shall
include the following information:
         a.   The legal name and a copy of a current federal or state pictured
identification of the performer.
         b.   A written statement assuring that the performer possessing a
firearm:
            (1)   Has not been convicted within the last three (3) years of a
felony, or if convicted, has had his or her civil rights reinstated;
            (2)   Does not have any criminal charge pending which would be
considered a felony in this state;
            (3)   Has not been convicted of a crime involving domestic violence
within the last year;
            (4)   Does not have a pending order of protection or other type of
court order issued against him or her that prohibits the possession of a
firearm;
            (5)   Does not have an outstanding warrant for the applicant's
arrest.
      3.   A person or group who is issued a permit under this chapter must
comply with section
5-5-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Restrictions: No special permit shall be issued to a person or group
having a person considered a prohibited possessor of a firearm. Any group or
person that violates the Arizona Revised Statutes governing firearms or any of
the above conditions and regulations shall be subject to the revocation of his/
her/its special permit by the Tombstone marshal or his designated deputy. If a
permit is revoked for a substantial violation of this chapter, a reapplication
must be made and approved by the mayor and city council.
   D.   Insurance: The reenactment group or solo performer shall be required to
carry insurance in a minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) and
name the city of Tombstone as an additional insured.
   E.   Appeal: Any group, coordinator, or person having the special permit, as
provided in this chapter, refused him/her or revoked after being granted, may
appeal to the city council whose decision granting, restoring, or refusing to
grant or restore said permit shall be final. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-12-2016)
5-5-3: REGULATIONS GOVERNING REENACTMENTS INVOLVING FIREARMS:
   A.   Each reenactment or entertainment group shall be required to staff an
armorer that is registered and approved by the city marshal.
   B.   All armorer's shall be required to:
      1.   Store all blank ammunition in a locked container that is not
accessible to anybody other than the armorer, owner or senior member of the
group, and law enforcement.
      2.   Check all firearms to be used in an event before and after each
reenactment to ensure there is no ammunition of any kind in the firearm and to
ensure that the serial number on each firearm has not been defaced.
      3.   Dispense the blank ammunition to each member of the reenactment
according to that person's particular need of each reenactment. Once the rounds
are discharged, the armorer shall collect the spent rounds from the participant
in order to account for each round dispensed to that participant. The armorer
shall also be required for collecting and accounting for each unspent round
issued to each participant. No participant shall leave the reenactment area
without permission of the armorer, who shall collect all rounds in the
possession of that person.
      4.   If a reenactment or entertainment group plans on using an explosive
or improvised explosive device other than blanks, such city marshal shall be
notified in writing at least seven (7) days in advance of the reenactment. The
notice shall include a complete and detailed description of the explosive or
the improvised explosive device, the manner in which the explosive or
improvised explosive device shall be used, and all safety precautions that are
intended to be implemented to ensure the safety of the spectators, tourists,
residences, guests and the surrounding buildings. The marshal shall deliver a
copy of the written notice to the fire chief. No explosive or improvised
explosive device shall be used in a reenactment until written permission is
granted by the fire chief and city marshal at least one hour prior to the
event.
      5.   The marshal or his designated deputy shall be granted unbridled
access to any public event to monitor the armorer's process to ensure the
regulations set out herein are being followed. At the discretion of the
marshal, an ongoing reenactment event may be suspended for a period of up to
thirty (30) days in order to obtain compliance with these regulations.
   C.   The performing area shall be cordoned off by the event sponsor or
coordinator, which shall include a staging area. All performers shall enter and
exit through the staging area. During the event, the performing area shall be
kept clear except for the performers.
   D.   Should anyone in the show have to leave the area before or during the
show they must go through the staging area again to get back in.
   E.   These procedures shall be followed immediately before and immediately
after every performance.
   F.   It shall be unlawful to recklessly handle, display or discharge a
deadly weapon or dangerous instrument. Reckless includes twirling or gun
spinning. Violation of this section is a Class 1 misdemeanor. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-
12-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-2, 1-28-2020)
5-5-4: SEVERABILITY:
Any portion of this chapter that is determined to be unenforceable or
substantially conflict with the Arizona Revised Statutes shall not affect the
rest of the chapter for the purpose of regulation and enforcement. The
remaining provisions of this chapter shall be enforced as if the remaining
provisions of the chapter were enforceable. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-12-2016)
5-5-5: IMMUNITY:
This chapter does not create any civil liability on the city of Tombstone. The
city is not liable for the failure to discover or prevent any violation of this
chapter including the issuance of a permit or failure to revoke or suspend any
permit. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-12-2016)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-6-1: Creation
5-6-2: Members
5-6-3: Salaries
5-6-4: False Representation Of An Officer
5-6-5: Responsibilities
5-6-6: Arrest Authority
5-6-7: Violation Of Duties
5-6-8: Records And Reports
5-6-1: CREATION:
There shall be and hereby is created the animal control department of the city
(hereinafter referred to as the department). (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-1981)
5-6-2: MEMBERS:
Members of the department shall include the animal control officer and such
deputies and special deputies as may be appointed by the marshal. (Ord. 2012-
04, 9-11-2012)
5-6-3: SALARIES:
Salaries of the members of the department shall be such sums as designated by
the mayor and common council. All full time employees of the department are
considered to be salaried employees. (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-1981)
5-6-4: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF AN OFFICER:
Any person who shall falsely represent himself as an animal control officer or
any deputy thereof of this city, and shall arrest or attempt to arrest, under
such representation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) fine, or three (3) months in jail, or both. (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-1981)
5-6-5: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The department shall enforce laws under the Arizona Revised Statutes, the city
charter and this code with regard to the control of animals except where the
enforcing authority is delegated to someone else or some other agency. In such
event the department shall cooperate by exercising its authority when requested
to do so. (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-1981)
5-6-6: ARREST AUTHORITY:
All regular members of the department are hereby delegated arrest authority for
violation of the laws under Arizona Revised Statutes, the city charter and this
code. All special deputy animal control officers shall exercise only that
arrest authority stipulated in their appointing document. (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-
1981)
5-6-7: VIOLATION OF DUTIES:
The animal control officer shall report in writing to the mayor and common
council, giving facts of any deputy or special deputy animal control officer
who shall neglect or refuse to perform any of his or her required duties or
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The accused shall be
examined before the mayor and common council, and if, in the mayor and common
council's judgment, he or she is guilty of a violation, neglect or refusal of
duty, he or she may be fined any number of days' pay not to exceed ten (10) or
be suspended from the department any length of time not to exceed sixty (60)
days or entirely, or both such fine, suspension and/or discharge shall be at
the discretion of the mayor and common council. (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-1981)
5-6-8: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The department shall maintain and submit such reports as are requested by the
mayor and common council from time to time. (Ord. 6-80-81, 3-2-1981)
CHAPTER 7
EQUINE USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Rules; Regulations
5-7-3: Permit Required
5-7-4: Enforcement Officer
5-7-5: Violations
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL PURPOSE: As used in this chapter and throughout this code is defined
as describing all undertakings entered into for private gain, benefit or
compensation, including all industrial or nonprofit pursuits, whether such
undertakings involve the handling or dealing in commodities for sale, barter or
providing a service or otherwise and whether the undertaking was initiated or
concluded outside the limits of the city of Tombstone.
EQUINE: Horses, burros, mules or other animals relating to equine or other
members of the equine family. (Ord. 2010-02, 2-9-2010)
5-7-2: RULES; REGULATIONS:
Within the limits of the city of Tombstone and in or on any public park,
recreation area, parking lot, road, or street under the jurisdiction of the
city of Tombstone the following regulations shall apply for the riding or other
use of equine:
   A.   All equine must have a halter with a lead rope when tied to a hitching
rail and shall not be tied to any other structure.
   B.   Any equine which cannot be controlled must be removed from the city.
   C.   Riding two (2) or more persons on a single animal is prohibited, except
by special permission of the enforcement officer.
   D.   All equine shall be made to yield to pedestrian traffic at all times.
   E.   The carrying of a glass container or the use of open containers while
riding equine is prohibited.
   F.   Riders under the age of eighteen (18) years must be accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian who shall be responsible for the behavior of the
younger rider.
   G.   Equine shall not be left unattended at any time or left attended by any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   H.   All individuals shall be prohibited from any behavior intended to
startle an equine while tied, ridden by an individual, or while pulling any
conveyance.
   I.   Equine shall not be allowed to run or cantor within the limits of the
Schieffelin historic district.
   J.   Equine within the Schieffelin historic district shall not block the
path of permitted equine drawn conveyances or block areas designated for the
loading and unloading of such conveyances.
   K.   Persons riding equine within the Schieffelin historic district shall be
responsible for cleaning up all feces left by their animals whether tied or on
the move. Equine drawn conveyance operators must clean up feces left by their
animals or provide for the use of portable collection devices.
   L.   Within the Schieffelin historic district equine shall not be ridden on
city boardwalks except by law enforcement personnel in the performance of their
duty.
   M.   Any person aged twelve (12) or under must wear a helmet while riding
equine within the limits of Tombstone. (Ord. 2010-02, 2-9-2010)
5-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
All equine or equine drawn conveyances being used for commercial purposes
within the city limits of Tombstone shall comply with section
8-5-2, "Animal Use Permits", of this code. (Ord. 2010-02, 2-9-2010)
5-7-4: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The marshal's office, deputies and their designees shall be responsible for
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-02, 2-9-2010)
5-7-5: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by
a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), by imprisonment of not
more than six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 2010-02,
2-9-2010)
CHAPTER 8
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS ("DRONES")
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purpose
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: Prohibition
5-8-4: Exceptions
5-8-5: Offense And Penalty
5-8-6: Severability
5-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the residents, guests and tourists of
the city of Tombstone protection from invasions of privacy due to the rapid
implementation of unmanned aircraft system technology being put into use by
individuals, entities, and law enforcement agencies. Use of unmanned aerial
vehicles also pose an unreasonable public safety concern to city residents,
guests, tourists and business owners in the event of an unmanned aircraft
malfunction, loss of control, striking other airborne or elevated objects such
as birds or cables, or other inability to sustain flight. (Ord. 2015-03, 7-14-
2015)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
AIRCRAFT: A device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air.
AIRSPACE: The portion of the atmosphere directly above land or water.
DRONE: An unmanned aircraft that:
   A.   Is operated without the possibility of direct human intervention from
within or on the aircraft;
   B.   Are mechanical and use aerodynamic forces or gases to provide vehicle
lift;
   C.   Can fly under the control of a remote pilot or a geographic positioning
system (GPS) guided autopilot.
MODEL AIRCRAFT: An unmanned aircraft that is:
   A.   Capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere;
   B.   Flown within visual line of sight of the person operating the aircraft;
and
   C.   Flown for hobby or recreational purposes.
NAVIGABLE AIRSPACE: Airspace above the minimum altitudes of flight including
airspace needed to ensure safety in the takeoff and landing of aircraft.
Currently, the navigable airspace begins at four hundred feet (400') above
ground.
SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (SUA): An unmanned aircraft weighing less than fifty
five (55) pounds (all up takeoff weight).
SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (SUAS): An unmanned aircraft system for small
unmanned aircraft.
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT: An aircraft that is operated without the possibility of
direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft. This definition
includes "unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)" and "drones".
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM: An unmanned aircraft and associated elements
(including communication links and the components that control the unmanned
aircraft) that are required for the operator/pilot in command to operate the
aircraft safely and efficiently. Unmanned aircraft systems use a remote pilot
or a geographic positioning system (GPS) guided autopilot to operate or control
the aircraft.
UNREGULATED AIRSPACE: Airspace that is considered by the FAA as being used for
navigation. (Ord. 2015-03, 7-14-2015)
5-8-3: PROHIBITION:
   A.   No person, entity or governmental unit may operate a small unmanned
aircraft or a small unmanned aircraft system within the unregulated airspace of
the city of Tombstone unless otherwise authorized pursuant to section
5-8-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Except as stated in subsection
5-8-5D of this chapter, evidence that is obtained or collected in violation of
this chapter is not admissible against the purported victim in a civil or
criminal proceeding and may not be used against a citizen, corporation or
organization in any formal proceeding within this state for the purpose of
enforcing federal, state or local law unless the evidence was collected under
one of the exceptions described in section
5-8-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-03, 7-14-2015)
5-8-4: EXCEPTIONS:
It is lawful to use a small unmanned aircraft or small unmanned aircraft system
within the city of Tombstone to photograph, film, audiotape, collect
information or otherwise record an individual or individuals acting on private
property:
   A.   If the unmanned aircraft is operated by a federal, or state
governmental agency for law enforcement, scientific investigation/research,
mapping and evaluating the earth's surface, and investigation/evaluation of
agriculture, forestry, and wildlife in accordance with the laws of the state of
Arizona and the United States;
   B.   If the recording is captured by the city of Tombstone or an individual
or entity under contract with the city of Tombstone for a legitimate
governmental purpose;
   C.   If the recording is made for the operation and maintenance of utilities
or telecommunication facilities for the purpose of maintaining the reliability
and integrity of the utility or telecommunication system or to determine if
repairs to the system are necessary;
   D.   If law enforcement is using the unmanned aircraft system to execute a
valid search warrant;
   E.   If law enforcement is acting under circumstances in which an exception
to the warrant requirement is applicable;
   F.   If law enforcement is using the unmanned aircraft system to document a
crime scene where a felony offense has been committed or a serious traffic
accident just happened;
   G.   If law enforcement is conducting a search for a missing or abducted
person;
   H.   If the recording is made over several private residences for an
artistic or journalistic purpose and no individuals captured on the recording
are personally identifiable;
   I.   If the unmanned aircraft is operated only within the boundaries of an
individual's real property interest established by a deed or written tenancy,
and is not equipped with surveillance or monitoring equipment;
   J.   If the owner of the real property has provided the unmanned aircraft
operator with written consent to make a visual recording of the real property;
   K.   If the unmanned aircraft is a "model aircraft" as defined herein that
has not been altered from the manufacturer's specifications or otherwise
equipped with surveillance, monitoring, video or audio equipment and is used in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications. (Ord. 2015-03, 7-14-2015)
5-8-5: OFFENSE AND PENALTY:
   A.   A person commits an offense if the person uses an unmanned aircraft to
photograph, film, audiotape, or otherwise record an individual or individuals
acting on private property without the expressed, written consent of the
property owner and the individuals included in the recording. An offense under
this section is a class 1 misdemeanor.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the person did
not purposely intend to record the alleged victim and destroyed all
photographs, films, audiotapes, and other records:
      1.   As soon as the person had knowledge that the image was captured in
violation of this section;
      2.   Without disclosing, displaying, or distributing the image to a third
party;
      3.   The recordings did not include children, sexual acts or nudity.
   C.   It is a separate class 1 misdemeanor offense if that person or that
person's agent discloses, displays, distributes, sells, or otherwise uses that
image. Each image, video or audio recording a person discloses, displays,
distributes, or sells under this section is a separate offense.
   D.   A plaintiff who was the target of the surveillance, monitoring or
collection may use the evidence to support a civil or statutory claim against
the person found guilty of violating this chapter. (Ord. 2015-03, 7-14-2015)
5-8-6: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Should the federal or state government pass any law that governs any
provision of this chapter, an attempt shall be made to reconcile both laws.
Federal or state laws shall supersede any provision of this chapter that cannot
be reconciled. However, the remaining provisions of this chapter shall remain
in full force and effect. (Ord. 2015-03, 7-14-2015)
TITLE 6
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE LIMITS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Fire Limits
6-1-1: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits shall be and shall constitute all that portion of land
incorporated in the city as set forth in article I of the charter of the city
of Tombstone. In addition it shall include the city leased, owned or controlled
areas outside the corporate limits, such as: the airport, Schieffelin monument,
garbage dump and city water storage areas. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Membership
6-2-2: Bylaws
6-2-3: Fire Protection Map
6-2-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The fire department shall consist of one fire chief, one assistant fire chief
and such companies as the common council may in their judgment deem necessary
for the protection of the city from fire. (1972 Code)
6-2-2: BYLAWS:
Members of the fire department shall prepare and submit to the common council
for approval, a set of bylaws which shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   Organization of the fire department.
   B.   Addition and expulsion of members.
   C.   Election procedures.
   D.   Use of apparatus and machinery.
   E.   Fire drills.
   F.   Procedures in answering alarms.
   G.   Disputes.
   H.   Dereliction of duty. (1972 Code)
6-2-3: FIRE PROTECTION MAP:
The fire protection map, city of Tombstone, prepared by the Board of Fire
Underwriters of the Pacific, or other competent authority, shall be made
available to the fire department. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Hay Or Straw Storage
6-3-2: Explosive Oils And Materials
6-3-3: Fire Hydrants And Water Mains
6-3-4: Tampering With Water Facilities
6-3-5: Driving Over Hose
6-3-6: Adoption Of Fire Code
6-3-7: Burning Without A Permit
6-3-1: HAY OR STRAW STORAGE:
No person shall have, put or keep any hay or straw uncovered in any stack or
brick or pile (or in any other way or manner exposed to flying embers or sparks
of fire) within three hundred feet (300') of any building within the city.
No person shall keep on hand or stored within the fire limits of the city any
hay or straw except the same be kept or stored in a building made or built of
adobe or some other incombustible material, and the roof thereof covered with
tin or other fireproof material. (1972 Code)
6-3-2: EXPLOSIVE OILS AND MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to have or keep stored or on
hand, in or upon his premises or premises under his control within said fire
limits, at any one time, any kerosene or other kind or kinds of burning or
explosive oils or fluids in any quantity deemed hazardous by the fire chief and
any and all hay or straw, oils or fluids stored or kept on hand by any person
or persons, within said fire limits in excess of the quantities approved by the
fire chief shall be deemed a nuisance, and may be abated by order of the mayor
of the city by removing the same from the place or premises where found. (1972
Code)
6-3-3: FIRE HYDRANTS AND WATER MAINS:
Any person who shall in any manner destroy, damage or injure or in any manner
tamper with any water mains or pipes, laid in this city for the purpose of
supplying water to the city and the inhabitants thereof for extinguishing
fires, and other purposes or who shall in any manner destroy, damage or injure
or in any manner tamper with any of the fireplugs, hydrants or other apparatus
or things attached to any such water mains or pipes, or who shall in any manner
destroy, damage or injure any box, frame or post or other things erected around
or near any such fireplug or hydrant to protect the same shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. Provided however, the provisions of this section shall not
apply to any fireman of the city while acting in the discharge of his duty as
such, or to any person acting under the order or authority of the common
council of the city, or of the person owning or managing any such water mains
or pipes. (1972 Code)
6-3-4: TAMPERING WITH WATER FACILITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized to in any manner remove,
injure or destroy or tamper with any plug, valve or gate or other attachment of
any such mains or pipes. (1972 Code)
6-3-5: DRIVING OVER HOSE:
Any person riding or driving over any hose or in any other manner injuring,
destroying or tampering with any such hose or any engine, part, truck or other
instrument, property or thing, belonging to the city or fire department thereof
(or any apparatus used in connection therewith) used for the purpose of
extinguishing fire in the city, or any person who shall cause any such injury
to any such property or thing shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1972
Code)
6-3-6: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
The certain code entitled "uniform fire code of 2006" published by the National
Fire Protection Association, is hereby adopted as the fire code of the city and
made a part hereof as if said code was specifically set forth in full herein;
and at least three (3) copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk and kept available for public use and inspection, as required by
law. (Ord. 2007-10, 4-10-2007)
6-3-7: BURNING WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to ignite, cause to be ignited, permit to
be ignited, or suffer, allow, or maintain any open outdoor fire except as
provided in this section.
   B.   The following fires are excepted from this section:
      1.   Fires used only for cooking of food or for providing warmth for
human beings or the branding of animals or the use of orchard heaters for the
purpose of frost protection in farming or nursery operations within zones
specifically authorizing farms or nurseries.
      2.   Any fire set or permitted by any public officer in the performance
of official duty, if such fire is set or permission given for the purpose of
weed abatement, the prevention of a fire hazard, or instruction in the methods
of fighting fires.
      3.   Fires set by or permitted by the director of the department of
agriculture or county agricultural agents of the county for the purpose of
disease and pest prevention.
      4.   Fires set by or permitted by the federal government or any of its
departments, agencies or agents or the state or any of its agencies,
departments or political subdivisions for the purpose of watershed
rehabilitation or control through vegetative manipulation.
      5.   Fires permitted under this section.
   C.   A permit shall be obtained from the Tombstone fire department prior to
kindling any fire prohibited under this section. Permission for the setting of
any fire given by the fire department shall be given in writing and a copy of
the written permission shall be transmitted immediately to the Tombstone
marshal's department. The setting of any such fire shall be conducted in a
manner and at such time as approved by the fire department.
   D.   Permits issued pursuant to this subsection shall contain the following:
      1.   Conditions governing the method, manner and times for burning.
      2.   Limitation on materials which may be burned, including a prohibition
on burning of materials which generate noxious fumes.
      3.   A provision that all burning be extinguished in the manner
prescribed, and at the discretion of the fire department, which considers
periods of inadequate atmospheric smoke dispersion, periods of excessive
visibility impairment that could adversely affect public safety or periods when
smoke is blown into populated areas so as to create a public nuisance.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other law, the Tombstone marshal's department may
prohibit the use of outdoor wood burning stoves, outdoor firepits and similar
outdoor fires on those days for which the fire department has issued a no burn
day restriction.
   F.   A person who violates any provision of this section may be served a
notice of violation and be subject to a criminal liability under Arizona
Revised Statutes section 13-1702, except that a violation that lasts no more
than twenty four (24) hours and that is the first violation committed by that
person is subject to a civil penalty of no more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   G.   For the purposes of this section, "open outdoor fire" means any
combustion of combustible material of any type outdoors, in the open where the
products of combustion are not directed through a flue. For the purposes of
this subsection, "flue" means any duct or passage for air, gases or the like,
such as a stack or chimney. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
CHAPTER 4
FIRES OUTSIDE LIMITS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Rules; Regulations
6-4-1: RULES; REGULATIONS:
The volunteer fire department is hereby authorized to answer certain fire calls
and to combat fires outside of the corporate limits under the following
conditions and agreements:
   A.   Provided that applications are made to the mayor and common council for
fire protection, and applicant enters into an acceptable written contract with
the city for fire protection and deposits with the city clerk such sum as the
contract shall provide, which sum will be used to defray the cost of providing
fire equipment and firemen at applicant's premises, for one fire call only, and
provided further that such contract provides that there shall be no liability
against the city under any circumstance arising out of said contract, or any
action taken or failure to act by said fire department or any member thereof.
   B.   Provided that no fire is in progress within the city limits at the time
of the call, and provided further, that the said fire department shall return
within the city to give fire protection against any fire that may occur in the
city while the department is fighting a fire outside the corporate limits.
   C.   Provided that the fire insurance rates within the limits of the city
are not affected by the fire truck leaving the city.
   D.   Provided that the said vehicle shall not proceed a distance of more
than one-half (1/2) mile beyond the corporate limits of the city in making any
call to fight any fire under this chapter. (1972 Code)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SANITARY CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Established
7-1-2: Milk Code
7-1-3: Food And Drink Establishments
7-1-4: Environmental Sanitation And Miscellaneous Health Regulations
7-1-5: Amendments
7-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
A sanitary code for the city is hereby enacted. Said code shall consist of the
following sections. (1972 Code)
7-1-2: MILK CODE:
The latest current official copy of the U.S. public health service milk code, a
copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk shall govern milk
distribution, storage and sales within the city. (1972 Code)
7-1-3: FOOD AND DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS:
Operation of food and drink establishments shall be in accordance with U.S.
public health service code, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
city clerk. (1972 Code)
7-1-4: ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION AND MISCELLANEOUS HEALTH REGULATIONS:
Regulations pertaining to environmental health and sanitation and miscellaneous
health regulations as set forth in the health statutes of the Arizona state
department of health shall apply to the city; a copy of which is on file in the
office of the city clerk. (1972 Code)
7-1-5: AMENDMENTS:
The common council reserves the rights to make such changes in the sanitary
code, which in their opinion may be necessary from time to time, provided, such
changes or additions are not in conflict with county, state and federal
regulations. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE; REFUSE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Responsible Authority
7-2-3: Refuse Collection System
7-2-4: Use Of The Collection System
7-2-5: Unlawful Refuse Accumulation
7-2-6: Unlawful Disposal
7-2-7: Refuse Containers, Duties Of Owners Or Occupants
7-2-8: Collection Times And Period
7-2-9: Collection Fees
7-2-10: Collection Of Fees
7-2-11: Special Handling Of Garbage
7-2-12: Reserved
7-2-13: Inspection
7-2-14: Notice Of Condemned Container
7-2-15: Placement Of Containers
7-2-16: Penalties
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
COLLECTOR: A private person or entity that has been authorized by the city to
provide solid waste collection services by franchise, agreement, permit or
otherwise.
GARBAGE: All putrescible waste, excepting sewage and body waste, and all
organic waste that shall have been prepared for, or intended to be used as food
or shall have resulted from the preparation of food and shall include all such
substances from all public and private establishments and all residents.
INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or employees of Tombstone having the duty of
the enforcement of this chapter.
OWNER AND OCCUPANT: Every person in possession, charge or in control of any
dwelling, flat, rooming house or any eating place, shop, place of business,
manufacturing or business establishment where garbage or other refuse is
created or accumulated.
PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES: Solid waste prohibited in refuse collection containers,
or as uncontained refuse as follows:
   A.   Any substance not approved by the Arizona department of environmental
quality (ADEQ) or the landfill operator for disposal in the public landfill.
   B.   Hot ashes or other materials which could cause combustion to occur in
sanitation containers or hauling equipment.
   C.   Large dead animals.
   D.   Hazardous materials or toxic substances in strength or quantity which
could cause illness to the public or people operating or repairing sanitation
equipment.
   E.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   F.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
   G.   Tires.
   H.   Industrial waste, other than refuse.
   I.   Sludge from a wastewater treatment plant.
REFUSE: All solid waste, including "garbage" and "rubbish" as herein defined.
RUBBISH: All nonputrescible waste. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-2: RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY:
The city clerk shall appoint a person or persons who shall be responsible for
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and other duties as the
common council may prescribe. Said person or persons so appointed may be
employees of the city or department heads or persons who have contracted with
the city for the purpose of refuse collection and disposal. Said person or
persons shall work under the direction of the city clerk and in coordination
with the health officer or his appointed representative. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-
2011)
7-2-3: REFUSE COLLECTION SYSTEM:
It shall be the sole responsibility of the city to provide for collection and
conveyance of refuse through the streets or alleys of the city for a fee,
either by the city sanitation department or by a collector. The city council
may authorize exclusive (residential refuse only) or nonexclusive refuse
collection services by franchise, agreement, permit or otherwise to one or more
private persons or entities. The city or a collector shall provide containers
approved by the sanitation superintendent to occupants for the placement of
their refuse. The city owned or collector owned containers shall be distributed
and positioned as scheduled or directed by the sanitation superintendent. (Ord.
2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-4: USE OF THE COLLECTION SYSTEM:
Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of this
regulation shall use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided
and shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this regulation
all refuse. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-5: UNLAWFUL REFUSE ACCUMULATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to accumulate refuse
in or about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley or
sidewalk adjacent thereto, to be or remain in such condition as to create a
nuisance or offensive odor or atmosphere, or thereby to be or become, or cause
or create a public nuisance. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-6: UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Burn or incinerate refuse within the limits of the city, except with
written authority issued by the fire chief.
   B.   Dump or in any other way dispose of refuse within the limits of the
city unless as expressly provided in this code.
   C.   Place prohibited substances in a refuse container or for pick up as
uncontained refuse.
   D.   Place, or cause to be placed, refuse in a container not designated for
its use.
   E.   Burn, destroy, vandalize or otherwise damage any city owned or
collector owned container.
   F.   Remove, or cause to be removed, any city owned or collector owned
container from the location designated by the sanitation superintendent except
as provided in this chapter.
   G.   Remove, haul, or cause to be removed or hauled, any refuse on or along
any city right of way, street, or alley, unless the same is so loaded as to
prevent any such refuse from falling, leaking, or spilling.
   H.   Remove, haul, or cause to be removed or hauled, any refuse on or along
any city right of way, street, or alley, or place a container for the
collection of refuse at any location in the city, unless such person is the
city sanitation department or a collector. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-7: REFUSE CONTAINERS, DUTIES OF OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any place where refuse is
created or accumulated to:
   A.   At all times keep or cause to be kept portable containers for the
deposit therein of refuse and, except as otherwise provided, to deposit or
cause to be deposited all refuse therein so that the same may be removed by a
collector.
   B.   Place the individual city owned or collector owned container serving
one residence or one business, at the location scheduled by the sanitation
superintendent, not prior to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the day preceding the
day of collection; such containers shall otherwise be kept on the occupant's
property.
   C.   Wrap all garbage in paper or other material so as to prevent the escape
of liquids therefrom before deposited in such container.
   D.   Only use refuse containers that are watertight, metal, plastic or other
impervious substance, not easily corrodible, rodent and fly proof. The lid will
not be removed except when necessary to place refuse in such container or to
take the same therefrom.
   E.   Keep refuse containers in a sanitary condition, with the inside and
outside thereof washed and disinfected at such times as to keep the container
free and clean of all accumulating grease, decomposing material and excess
accumulation of bacteria or other organisms harmful to health and so that no
odor nuisance shall exist.
   F.   Remove all prohibited substances by means other than city owned or
collector owned containers and city or collector forces, within seven (7) days
after its generation.
   G.   Not load refuse containers to weigh more than the limits established by
the collector. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-8: COLLECTION TIMES AND PERIOD:
All refuse shall be collected as deemed necessary by the city clerk, with the
approval of the common council. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-9: COLLECTION FEES:
For those receiving residential (single-family and multi-family premises)
refuse collection services from the city or its exclusively licensed collector,
there shall be assessed and charged against that individual receiving water
service on the premises within the city a fee for the collection of refuse.
(Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-10: COLLECTION OF FEES:
   A.   For those receiving residential (single-family and multi- family
premises) refuse collection services from the city or its exclusively licensed
collector of residential refuse, the monthly charges for refuse collection will
be added to the water bill each month and is payable with the water bill. Such
charges shall become delinquent upon the same date as the water bill upon which
the same is charged. If the said fee for refuse collection is not paid when
due, the water service to said premises may be shut off as in case of
delinquency in payment of water bills and such service shall not be restored
without the payment in full to date plus the reconnection charge.
   B.   For residential premises where water service is not provided, the
charges herein set forth shall be paid to the city upon monthly bills from the
city.
If the fee provided in subsection B of this section for refuse collection
service is not paid when due, such sum may be recovered by the city in an
action at law against the owner or occupant, or both, of the premises so
served; such charges may be assessed against the premises served, and collected
and returned in the same manner as other county and municipal taxes are
assessed and collected. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-11: SPECIAL HANDLING OF GARBAGE:
To ensure the health of the inhabitants of Tombstone, certain premises and
businesses, such as, but not limited to, restaurants, grocery stores,
hospitals, butcher shops and establishments wherein large accumulations of
garbage occur, are hereby designated as a separate class of premises for the
collection and disposal of garbage and rubbish and the same shall be deposited
separately in suitable cans and containers. From and after the effective date
of this chapter, the inspector shall designate such premises wherein large
accumulations of garbage occur and shall notify the owner of such premises of
such designation. From and after such notification by the inspector all rubbish
and garbage accumulated upon such premises shall be deposited separately in
appropriate containers to be approved by the inspector.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except authorized by the city or their
contracting agents to collect, haul or transport garbage and/or other refuse
from any premises so designated under the provisions of this section. (Ord.
2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-12: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-13: INSPECTION:
The inspector or health officer or city police officers shall have the right of
ingress or egress to any premises for the purpose of inspecting all places and
containers where refuse is accumulated or kept. The property owner may refuse
this request unless presented with a search warrant or an emergency situation
exists. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-14: NOTICE OF CONDEMNED CONTAINER:
Containers into which refuse is placed shall be kept in good repair and in a
sanitary condition. Such containers found to be no longer serviceable through
disrepair or maintained in an unsanitary condition shall be condemned for
further use by the inspector or the health officer, or their representatives.
Legal notice of such condemnation shall consist of a label or tag affixed to
the unsatisfactory container. Receptacles not placed in a satisfactory
condition within fifteen (15) days of condemnation shall be removed and
disposed of by the inspector or his representative. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2-15: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
All such refuse containers shall be kept in a place accessible to the
collector, provided that in the case of isolated dwellings or places of
business where reasonable access cannot be had by motor vehicle, the containers
may be kept in such places as may be agreed upon by the owner and collector, or
as may be designated by the collector. Places of business shall place no
containers on the curb before five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and the same shall be
removed by six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the day of collection. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-
20-2011)
7-2-16: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction thereof be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed ten (10) days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each day is to be considered a separate violation. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL HAULERS
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Commercial Hauler License Required
7-2A-2: Exceptions
7-2A-3: Commercial Hauler License Application
7-2A-4: Additional Information
7-2A-5: Commercial Hauler License Fees
7-2A-1: COMMERCIAL HAULER LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person or entity may collect, transport or dispose of refuse
generated or coming to exist within the City, except as otherwise expressly
provided in this article, without having first obtained a commercial hauler
license pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   B.   The license required by this article shall be in addition to any other
licenses or permits required in order to engage in the business by either the
City, the County or the State, and persons engaging in activities described in
this article shall comply with all other ordinances and laws, including the
City zoning laws, as may be required to engage in the business to be licensed.
Failure of an applicant or licensee, as applicable, to meet the requirements of
this article shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a license. (Ord.
2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2A-2: EXCEPTIONS:
No commercial hauler license shall be required under this article as to the
following:
   A.   Construction and demolition debris that is incidentally removed by a
duly licensed construction or demolition contractor, or as part of a total
service offered by such licensed company, and where the licensed company uses
its own equipment and employees. The removal of any such construction and
demolition debris shall be for purposes of recycling and shall be in accordance
with any licensing or permitting requirements established by the City and
managed in a manner consistent with the Municipal code(s) of the applicable
member agency, which may require recycling a minimum amount of such materials.
"Construction and demolition debris" means construction materials resulting
from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations, as part of a
total service offered by a duly licensed demolition company, including rocks,
soil, tree remains, and other green waste which normally results from land
clearing or land development operations for a construction project;
   B.   Green waste removed from a premises by a gardening, landscaping or tree
trimming company using its own equipment and employees as an incidental part of
a total service offered by the company, as opposed to a hauling service. "Green
waste" means grass clippings, leaves, hedge trimmings, small branches and
similar vegetative waste generated from a residence, but does not include
stumps or similar bulky wood materials;
   C.   Persons hauling their own refuse from their own premises, and which is
transported personally by the owner or occupant of such premises (or by his or
her full time employees) to any processing or disposal site. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-
20-2011)
7-2A-3: COMMERCIAL HAULER LICENSE APPLICATION:
Every person applying for a license under this article shall file an
application with the City Clerk, which may be upon a form provided by the City
Clerk. containing the following information:
   A.   The names and addresses of all applicants, including local address,
mailing address, permanent home address and business address.
   B.   Business and emergency telephone numbers for all persons or
organizations making application.
   C.   The name, addresses and telephone numbers of a person who will be
responsible for responding to emergencies on behalf of the applicant in the
event that a license is issued.
   D.   Each residence and business address of the persons making application,
for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of filing the
application, and the inclusive dates of each such address.
   E.   Arizona driver's license number of the applicant, if applicable.
   F.   Valid proof of age evidencing that the applicant is at least eighteen
(18) years of age, if the person is seeking to be licensed in an individual
capacity.
   G.   If the organization on whose behalf the application is made is a joint
venture, partnership, or limited partnership, the names, local and permanent
street addresses and local telephone numbers of all partners and their
percentage of participation. If the organization is a corporation, the names,
local and permanent street addresses and telephone numbers of all shareholders
owning an interest of five percent (5%) or more of the outstanding shares and
their percentage.
   H.   Information as to whether such individual or business has ever been
refused any similar license or permit or has had any similar license or permit
issued to such individual or business revoked or suspended, in the City or
elsewhere, and the reason or reasons therefor.
   I.   The make, model, vehicle identification number (VIN) and Arizona
license plate number for each vehicle, with a capacity over ten (10) cubic
yards, that the applicant will use in connection with the license.
   J.   All prior criminal convictions excepting minor traffic offenses for the
last five (5) years.
   K.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be
set forth exactly as shown on its articles of incorporation or charter,
together with the State and date of incorporation, and the names, residence
addresses, and dates of birth of each of its current officers and directors,
and each stockholder holding more than five percent (5%) of the stock in the
corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth
the names, residence addresses, and dates of birth of each of the partners,
including limited partners and profit interest holders. If the applicant is a
limited partnership, the applicant shall furnish a copy of the certificate of
limited partnership as filed with the Secretary of State. If one or more of the
partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to
corporations shall apply. The corporation or partnership applicant shall
designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible
managing officer. Such designated person shall complete and sign all
application forms required of an individual applicant under this article, but
only one application fee shall be charged.
   L.   The name of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to receive
service of process. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2A-4: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
In addition to the information required in section
7-2A-3 of this article the following information shall be submitted in
connection with the commercial hauler license application:
   A.   A statement indicating what arrangements have been made by the
applicant for the disposal of all solid waste to be collected pursuant to the
license and the location of the disposal site.
   B.   A description of the applicant's previous experience in activities
similar to those for which the license application is submitted.
   C.   Additional information deemed by the City Clerk to be reasonably
necessary to fully and fairly evaluate the license application.
   D.   The City Clerk will evaluate the application and information and will
make a determination as to whether the license should be granted or denied. The
determination shall be in writing and, if it is for denial, shall give the
reasons why in the reasonable judgment of the City Clerk the applicant should
not be granted a license.
   E.   The City Clerk shall have the assistance of such other departments of
the City as may be deemed reasonably necessary to determine whether or not an
applicant meets the requirements set forth in this article.
   F.   The City Clerk shall have sixty (60) days from the date of the
completion of all application materials and requirements to either issue or
deny any license subject to this article. The issuance of any license shall in
no way be construed as a waiver of any right of revocation the City may have at
the time of issuance. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
7-2A-5: COMMERCIAL HAULER LICENSE FEES:
The following fees shall be paid with respect to commercial hauler licenses to
defray the costs associated with the administration and enforcement of this
article. All fees are nonrefundable, nontransferable and must be paid in full
prior to the issuance of any license.
   A.   Application fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 2011-08,
10-20-2011)
   B.   Annual license fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00) to be paid in
quarterly installments of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 2012-01,
1-17-2012)
Annual license fees for period of less than one year shall be prorated by
calendar quarter, transportation or disposal services for which a license is
required. Any portion of a quarter that exceeds fifteen (15) days shall
constitute a quarter for purposes of this subsection B. The annual license
application fee shall not be prorated. (Ord. 2011-08, 10-20-2011)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Rules And Regulations
7-3-3: Extension Policy
7-3-4: Responsibilities
7-3-5: Private Sewage Systems
7-3-6: Tampering With Equipment Prohibited
7-3-7: Permit Required
7-3-8: Inspection And Approval Of Sewer Connections
7-3-9: Records
7-3-10: Use Of Public Sewers; Prohibited Substances
7-3-11: Interceptors Required
7-3-12: Prohibited Admissions To The Sewer System
7-3-13: Preliminary Treatment
7-3-14: Manholes
7-3-15: Tests And Analyses
7-3-16: Special Agreement With Industrial Concerns
7-3-17: Sewer Service Charges
7-3-18: Violations Of Provisions
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The BOD indicates the rate of oxygen utilized
by wastewater under controlled conditions of temperature and time.
COLLECTION SYSTEM: The pipelines, pumping stations, force mains and all
devices, appurtenances and facilities used for collecting and conducting waste
to a point of treatment and disposal, but does not include private service
pipelines.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The liquid, gaseous or solid waste produced as a result of
any industrial operation.
INTERCEPTOR: A device in the internal plumbing of a building or adjacent
thereto, that has the function of separating grease, oil and sand from the
wastewater.
LATERALS: That part of the collection system that includes the pipelines from
the collectors, which are normally in the public thoroughfares, through
easements over private property to collect wastewater from several customers. A
lateral does not have tributaries.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (MGLE): A unit of expression used in laboratory and
scientific work to indicate very small concentrations or dilutions. It is a
weight/volume relationship.
PARTS PER MILLION (PPM): A unit of expression used to compare the amount of the
substance under surveillance to the total amount in the sample.
pH: The ratio of alkaline to acid in a liquid and ranging from zero to fourteen
(0:14) is most acid, one is the most alkaline and seven is neutral.
PRELIMINARY TREATMENT: Treatment of wastewater by an "interceptor", as defined
herein.
PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM: A disposal system owned and operated by a resident that
is not connected to the public collections system, such as septic tank,
cesspools and privies.
SERVICE TAP: The portion of the collection system from a collector or lateral
to the customer's property line or the limit of the easement through private
property.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids held in suspension in a liquid under operating
condition, as differing from sludge that will settle to the bottom and scum
that will rise and float on liquid. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Applications For Service: No sewer connecting any customer to the city
sanitary sewer system shall be made by any person or the city except upon
written application furnished by the owner of the premises to which the
sanitary sewer service is to be furnished, or his authorized agent.
   B.   Guarantee Deposit:
      1.   There will be no guarantee deposit for property owners residing in
or on the premises being served. Nonproperty owners of property served by a
sewer connection will be required to make a deposit in an amount set forth in
the sewer rate schedule.
      2.   The sewer guarantee deposit will be combined with the water
guarantee deposit and applied to the combined water, garbage and sewer
statement toward settlement of the final account of the customer and any excess
remaining shall be refunded to the customer.
   C.   Charges:
      1.   The deposit, connection charge, and monthly user charge will be as
set forth in the sewer rate schedule. This schedule shall be enacted annually
in the form of a resolution. The connection charge and monthly user charge will
be those established in resolutions 10-79-80 and 13-77-78, respectively. The
deposit will be that established at the regular council meeting in January
1980. Subsequent resolutions will be enacted at the regular council meeting in
June of each year beginning June 1980. Should the common council fail to enact
a new resolution, the resolution of the previous year shall continue in effect
until a subsequent resolution is passed which amends said resolution.
      2.   In addition to the collection of the regular rates established by
the sewer rate schedule, the city may collect from the customer a proportionate
share of any privilege, sales, or use tax levied or imposed by any governmental
authority upon the gross revenues received by the city from such service.
      3.   All fees for sewer service on the utility bill, including water,
garbage and sewer service, are payable upon presentation at the office of the
city clerk. If not paid by the first day of the following month, a penalty of
ten percent (10%) of the total billing shall be added on account of such
nonpayment. If the said fee for sewer service is not paid when due, the water
service to said premises may be shutoff as in the case of delinquency in
payment of water bills and such service shall not be restored without the
payment in full to date plus the reconnection charge. Reconnection charges will
be as set forth in the annual rate schedule. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
   D.   Basis For User Charge System:
      1.   The city of Tombstone treatment works is primarily flow dependent.
Therefore, the following formula is used to calculate user charges:
         Cu   =   (Ct/Vt) Vu
      Where Ct = Total operation and maintenance (O&M), including replacements
per unit of time
         Cu   =   A user's charge for O&M per unit of time
         Vu   =   Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
         Vt   =   Total volume contribution for all users per unit of time
      2.   In the event BOD, suspended solids, or other pollutant
concentrations from a user exceed the range of concentration of these
pollutants in normal domestic sewage, a surcharge added to the base charge
(above) will be levied. The surcharge will be computed by the formula below:
         Bc   =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD)
         CS   =   [Bc (B) + Sc (S) + Pc (P)] Vu
      Where Cs = a surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength
         Bc   =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD)
         B   =   Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level
         Sc   =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids
         S   =    Concentration of SS from a user above a base level
         Pc   =   O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
         Vu   =   Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
   E.   Method To Determine Average Water Usage: The water used in Tombstone
comes from two (2) sources, one being private wells, the other springs located
twenty five (25) miles southwest of the community in the Huachuca Mountains.
The following method has been used to determine the average water usage for
businesses and residences.
      1.   The city of Tombstone reviewed water service billings by separating
into related categories as follows: residential, apartments, hotels and motels,
doctors' offices, restaurants, service stations, churches, general offices,
general businesses, grocery stores and laundries.
      2.   Four hundred seventy five (475) residences and ninety (90)
commercial establishments were used to formulate an average; there was no
comparison made on the size of residential families in order to avoid possible
discrimination. The total water usage for one month was obtained, and then
divided by four hundred seventy five (475) in order to determine the average
residential usage to be four thousand two hundred (4,200) gallons per month.
Commercial water usage for one month was obtained by review of consumption for
the respective billings.
   F.   Estimated Sewage Flows By User Class:
User Class Average Monthly
           Production
User Class          Average Monthly
                    Production
Residential unit1   5,200
Apartment2          2,900
Hotel/motel unit3   1,150
Trailer/mobile home
Manager residence   5,200
Mobile space        2,900
RV space            1,750
Commercial
Public4             11,500
Private             4,500
Schools
Winter (9 month)    115,000
Summer (3 month)    30,000
Church              4,500
Notes:
1. Includes townhouses.
2. Includes duplexes, triplexes and apartment buildings.
3. Includes rooming house or attached rental.
4. Businesses with public facilities, i.e., saloons, etc.
 
      1.   After each category's average is figured, the average is multiplied
by the number of actual users in the same category, thus arriving at a total
average usage for such category. The sum of the total average usage of each
category then equals the total average usage for all categories. This figure is
the total volume of all users per unit of time.
      2.   The city of Tombstone will review not less often than every two (2)
years the water contribution of users and user classes, the total costs of
operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and its approved user charge
system. The city shall revise the charges for users or user classes to
accomplish the following:
         a.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes as required herein;
         b.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation of
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacements) of the treatment works; and
         c.   Apply excess revenue collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
      3.   The city of Tombstone will notify each user at least annually in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges or ad valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment
services.
   G.   Inconsistent Agreements: The city of Tombstone may have preexisting
agreements which address: 1) the reservation of capacity in the district's
treatment works, or 2) the charges to be collected by the district in providing
wastewater treatment services or reserving capacity. This user charge system
shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements of contracts
between the grantee and the users (including industrial users, special
districts, other municipalities, or federal agencies or installations) which
are inconsistent with the requirements of section 204(b)(1)(A) of the act and
these regulations. (Ord. 80-81, 1980)
7-3-3: EXTENSION POLICY:
   A.   It is the policy of the city to provide sewer service to all customers
of water service who were customers as of the date of the original sewer
project approved May 26, 1977. The fulfillment of this policy will depend upon
the availability of funds.
   B.   The sewer connection charge as set forth in the annual sewer rate
schedule includes installation of the service tap from the customer's property
line to a point in the sewer collection system provided this distance does not
exceed one hundred (100) linear feet. For service taps and/or laterals in
excess of one hundred (100) linear feet, the customer(s) will be charged for
the installation cost of the excess footage.
   C.   In newly developed areas, the sewer system will be installed in
accordance with regulations and specifications of the city of Tombstone and the
state of Arizona department of health services. The developer will bear all
cost for this sewer system. Inspection of the same will be conducted by the
city engineer and, after his approval; it may be accepted by the city and
incorporated into the sewer collection system. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-4: RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   It is the responsibility of the building inspector to inspect for
approval, all wastewater facilities on privately owned property.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the city engineer to inspect for approval,
all sewer construction on public thoroughfares, and easements or the same, over
private property.
   C.   It is the responsibility of the city engineer to inspect for approval,
all sewer construction in subdivisions prior to acceptance of the installed
sewer system into the municipal collection system. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-5: PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS:
   A.   When Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available to a
building that emits wastewater, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system, which complies with the regulations of the
state of Arizona department of health services.
   B.   Discontinuance: Within one hundred eighty (180) days, unless an
exception is made by the mayor and common council of its agent, after the
public sewer becomes available within one hundred feet (100') of any property
served by the private sewage disposal system, the owner of the property, or his
agent, will make application for connection to the city sewer collection
system. Once a customer has been connected to the system, his private disposal
system will be abandoned and safeguarded in accordance with state of Arizona
department of health service regulations. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-6: TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be a misdemeanor for any people who maliciously, wilfully or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage
works. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-7: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any unauthorized person to uncover, make
any connection with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof, without first obtaining a written permit from the city
engineer.
   B.   Upon issuance of a required permit to any person, each and every permit
shall be presented by the person to the building inspector and application made
for building connection. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-8: INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF SEWER CONNECTIONS:
No building sewer will be connected to the building connection until it has
been inspected and approved by the building inspector. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-
1980)
7-3-9: RECORDS:
The office of the city clerk shall keep a record of all building connections
made, the purpose for which they are to be used, together with the name of the
owner of the property, his agent or representative. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-10: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS; PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Prohibited Substances:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Except as provided in this section, no person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any
public sewers:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
         b.   Any water or waste which may contain more than fifty (50) parts
per million by weight of fat, oil or grease.
         c.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
         d.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
         e.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, grits such as brick,
cement, onyx, carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer works.
         f.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half
(51/2), or higher than nine (9), or any other corrosive property capable of
causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage
works.
         g.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans, or animals, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
         h.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-11: INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED:
   A.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes,
sand, and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. Grease traps shall be
required at all public premises where food is served, such as restaurants,
cafeterias, and boarding houses.
   B.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious material
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   C.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-12: PROHIBITED ADMISSIONS TO THE SEWER SYSTEM:
The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having any of the
following characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city engineer:
   A.   A five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than three
hundred (300) parts per million by weight.
   B.   Containing more than three hundred fifty (350) parts per million by
weight of suspended solids.
   C.   Containing any quantity of substance having the characteristics
described in subsection
7-3-10A of this chapter.
   D.   Having an average daily flow of greater than two percent (2%) of the
average daily sewer. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-13: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
   A.   Required: Where necessary in the opinion of the city engineer, or for
any industrial waste, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary
treatment as may be necessary to:
      1.   Reduce the BOD to three hundred (300) parts per million and the
suspended solids to three hundred (300) parts per million by weight.
      2.   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in section
7-3-12A of this chapter.
      3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   B.   Approval: Plans and specifications, any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be in accordance
with the most recent edition of the uniform plumbing code in effect, and shall
be submitted for approval of the city engineer and the engineering division of
the Arizona department of health services. No construction of such facilities
shall be commenced until such approvals are obtained in writing.
   C.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 1-79-
80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-14: MANHOLES:
When required by the city engineer, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of wastes.
Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall
be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the building inspector. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-15: TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which
reference is made in section
7-3-12 of this chapter, shall be determined in accordance with "standard
methods for the examination of wastewater", and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided for in the preceding section or upon suitable samples
taken at such control manholes. (Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-16: SPECIAL AGREEMENT WITH INDUSTRIAL CONCERNS:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength of character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
7-3-17: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES:
Sewer service charges are hereby imposed upon all users of the sewage
facilities of the city, even though the property is not occupied, as follows:
   A.   The sum of five dollars ($5.00) per month for each private dwelling
house, including townhouses, mobile homes not in mobile home parks, occupied by
one family.
   B.   The sum of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per month for each apartment
living unit of multiple dwellings, including, but not limited to, duplexes,
triplexes and apartment buildings, but not including hotels, motels, rooming
houses, trailer courts and mobile home parks. An "apartment living unit" is
defined as a dwelling place intended to be self-contained, including cooking
and bathing facilities, and commonly rented for periods of one month or longer.
   C.   The sum of one dollar ($1.00) per month for each living unit of hotels,
motels and rooming houses. A "hotel, motel or rooming house" is defined as a
multiple unit containing individual dwelling units which are offered for rental
for the most part on a daily or weekly basis.
   D.   The sum of five dollars ($5.00) per month for trailer courts or mobile
home parks and an added charge of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per month for
each mobile home space and one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per month for each
recreational vehicle space.
   E.   The sum of ten dollars ($10.00) per month for commercial users with
public wastewater facilities and the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per month for
those with private facilities only.
   F.   The sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for schools during
the nine (9) month school year and twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month for
remainder of the year.
   G.   The sum of five dollars ($5.00) per month for each church.
   H.   Where the city serves or is available to serve the same property as the
water system, and where the water is supplied through a single meter, all
monies due the city on account of water sales, sewer fees, receipts for new
water and sewer connections, tap charges, meter repairs, reimbursements for
damages, any penalty charges assessed for failure to connect to the public
sewer system or from any other water or sewer charge not expressly provided for
herein, shall be billed monthly on the same statement and to the same user as
the water service charge. (Ord. 04-80-81, 11-24-1980)
   I.   Sewer service charges shall be billed during the first month after the
first full thirty (30) days that sewer service becomes available to the user.
If the sewer service is available, then the sewer service charge shall be
billed as set forth herein even though the user has not connected to the sewer
system. The sewer service is determined to be available when the city has
installed the sewer hookup to the property line of the user. (Ord. 5-81-82, 2-
22-1982)
   J.   The minimum monthly fees as set forth shall be applied at termination
of the sewer usage by a user, provided said user has used the sewer service for
the previous sixteen (16) days or more. If the user has used the sewer service
for fifteen (15) days or less, there will be no charge for that period of sewer
usage. (Ord. 04-80-81, 11-24-1980)
   K.   Violation of any provision of this ordinance shall be a class one
misdemeanor. (Ord. 5-81-82, 2-22-1982)
7-3-18: VIOLATIONS OF PROVISIONS:
It shall be a misdemeanor for anyone to violate any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-79-80, 1-11-1980)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Prohibited In Specified Places
7-4-3: Violation By Persons Having Control
7-4-4: Authority Of Fire Inspector
7-4-5: Placarding Required
7-4-6: Violation Of Sign
7-4-7: Throwing Hot Or Burning Substances
7-4-8: Placing Lighted Objects Close To Combustible Matter
7-4-9: Penalties
7-4-10: Severability
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directive.
CITY: The city of Tombstone, Cochise County, Arizona.
COMMON COUNCIL: The common council of the city of Tombstone, Cochise County,
Arizona.
FIRE INSPECTOR: The chief of the fire department of the city of Tombstone,
Cochise County, Arizona.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Tombstone, Cochise County, Arizona.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-2: PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or match or use
any spark, flame, or fire producing device not specifically authorized for use
in such place by the fire inspector in any "public place" which is owned,
operated or controlled by the city and which public place has posted a placard
which reads "Smoking Prohibited By Law". (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-3: VIOLATIONS BY PERSONS HAVING CONTROL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, or his agent, having control of any
"public place" as defined in section
7-4-2 of this chapter to knowingly permit a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-4: AUTHORITY OF FIRE INSPECTOR:
The fire inspector shall have the authority to order "Smoking Prohibited By
Law" signs erected in any "public place" as defined in section
7-4-2 of this chapter where, in his opinion, smoking, or the carrying of a
lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or match or any use of any spark, flame, or fire
producing device not specially authorized for use in such place would
constitute a menace to life or property. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-5: PLACARDING REQUIRED:
Every person having control of a public place which is owned, operated, or
controlled by the city upon which smoking or the carrying of lighted objects is
prohibited by or under the authority of this chapter, shall conspicuously
display upon the premises a sign reading "Smoking Prohibited By Law". (Ord. 10-
80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-6: VIOLATION OF SIGN:
No person shall smoke in any properly placarded place, nor shall any person
remove any placard required to be erected by or under the authority of this
chapter. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-7: THROWING HOT OR BURNING SUBSTANCES:
No person shall throw hot or burning substances, or objects such as cigars,
cigarettes, papers, matches and ashes in or from any public place which is
owned, operated or controlled by the city. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-8: PLACING LIGHTED OBJECTS CLOSE TO COMBUSTIBLE MATTER:
No person shall throw or place hot or burning substances, or objects such as
cigars, cigarettes, or the contents of a burning pipe and, upon, or in close
proximity to any "public place" as defined in section
7-4-2 of this chapter where there is any material or condition which is
combustible or liable to damage by heat, fire or explosion. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-
18-1981)
7-4-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or be imprisoned for a period not
exceeding six (6) months or be both so fined and imprisoned. Each day such
violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
7-4-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 10-80-81, 6-18-1981)
CHAPTER 5
BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Purpose
7-5-3: Backflow Prevention Required
7-5-4: Hazard Potential
7-5-5: Methods Of Backflow Prevention
7-5-6: Backflow Prevention Methods Required
7-5-7: Installation Requirements For Backflow Assembly
7-5-8: Installation Or Backflow Prevention Assemblies For Fire Systems
7-5-9: Inspection
7-5-10: Permit Required
7-5-11: Test, Maintenance, Records
7-5-12: Modification Of Backflow Prevention Requirements
7-5-13: Discontinuance Of Water Service
7-5-14: Administrative Appeal
7-5-15: Violation Of A Civil Infraction
7-5-16: Retroactive Application
7-5-17: Fees
7-5-18: Backflow And Cross Connection Manual Incorporated By Reference
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CITY OF TOMBSTONE WATER DEPARTMENT: The municipal water department for the city
of Tombstone.
DEPARTMENT: The municipal water department for the city of Tombstone.
UPC: The uniform plumbing code as adopted in section
3-1-5 of this code. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   To protect the public water supply of the city of Tombstone from the
possibility of contamination or pollution from the backflow of contaminants and
pollutants into the public potable water supply system.
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, with a customer's internal potable water system, plumbing
fixtures and industrial piping systems.
   C.   To provide for a continuing program to monitor, control, and prevent
cross connection contamination or pollution of the public potable water supply
system. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow prevention method shall be utilized or installed
at any service connection when it is determined by the city of Tombstone water
department that the public potable water system may be subject to
contamination, pollution or deterioration of its sanitary quality or condition.
   B.   The backflow prevention method shall be utilized or installed which
shall be determined by the city of Tombstone water department. The method of
backflow prevention which an applicant will be required to use shall be of a
nature sufficient to protect the public potable water supply against potential
hazards from contamination or pollution. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-4: HAZARD POTENTIAL:
The degree of hazard potential to the public potable water supply and system
from a customer's water supply system shall be determined using the following
hazard factors:
   A.   Contamination: Any condition, device or practice which, in the judgment
of the city of Tombstone water department, may create a danger to the health
and well being of the potable water customers.
   B.   Cross Connection: An actual or potential plumbing connection that is
not properly protected by an approved backflow prevention method.
   C.   Hazard: An actual or potential threat of backflow which may cause
severe damage to the physical facilities of the public potable water supply
system or which may have a protracted effect on the quality of the potable
water in the system.
   D.   Pollution: An actual or potential threat to the physical facilities or
the public potable water supply system or to the public potable water supply
which would constitute a nuisance or cause objectionable odor, taste, or
discolor or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances. (Ord. 3-
1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-5: METHODS OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
   A.   A backflow prevention method shall be any assembly or other means
designed to prevent backflow. The following are the recognized backflow
prevention methods which the city of Tombstone water department may require
under section
7-5-3 or
7-5-6 of this chapter:
      1.   Air Gap: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the opening of the pipe or faucet supplying potable water to
a tank, plumbing fixture or other device. An approved air gap shall be at least
double the diameter of the supply pipe or faucet and in no case less than one
inch (1").
      2.   Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly (hereinafter "RPA"): An assembly
containing two (2) independently acting approved check valves together with an
hydraulically operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief
valve located between the check valves, and at the same time below the first
check valve. The assembly shall include properly located test cocks and tightly
closing shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly and fitted with
properly located test cocks.
      3.   Double Check Valve Assembly (hereinafter "DCVA"): An assembly
composed of two (2) independently acting, approved check valves, including
tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly and fitted
with properly located test cocks.
      4.   Pressure Vacuum Breaker Assembly (hereinafter "PVB"): An assembly
containing an independently operating loaded check valve and an independently
operating loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check
valve. The assembly shall be equipped with properly located test cocks and
tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly.
   B.   The city of Tombstone water department shall maintain a list of
approved backflow prevention assemblies, by type and manufacturer. The list
shall be available to any customer required to install a backflow prevention
assembly.
   C.   A backflow prevention method may be approved by the city of Tombstone
water department if it has received the approval of the foundation for cross
connection control and hydraulic research of the University of Southern
California, for assemblies, and has a local manufacturer's parts and services
center. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-6: BACKFLOW PREVENTION METHODS REQUIRED:
   A.   Whenever the following items exist or activities are conducted on
premises served by the public potable water system, a potential hazard to the
public potable water supply shall be presumed, and a backflow prevention method
of the type specified herein for that item or activity must be utilized or
installed at each service connection for that premises. The type and size of
the assembly shall be determined by the Tombstone city water department. The
bases for these requirements are contained in the city of Tombstone water
department manual of "Backflow Prevention And Cross Connection Control Program"
as is further set forth in section
7-5-18 of this chapter.
      1.   Cooling Tower, broiler, condenser, chiller, and other cooling
systems utilizing potable water: RPA.
      2.   Tank, vessel, receptacle, and all other water connections including
mobile units without approval air gap (except emergency vehicles and private
swimming pools): RPA.
      3.   Icemaker (other than a residential service): RPA.
      4.   Water cooler equipment, boosters, pumps or autoclaves: RPA.
      5.   Water treatment facilities and all water processing equipment (other
than residential water softeners): RPA.
      6.   Bottle washer, bedpan washer, garage car washer: RPA.
      7.   Pesticide, herbicide, fertilizer, chemical applicators (other than
typical in home use): RPA.
      8.   Aspirator: RPA.
      9.   Commercial dishwashers, food processing and/or preparation
equipment, carbonation equipment or other food service processes utilizing
potable water: RPA.
      10.   Decorative fountain, baptismal, or any location water is exposed to
atmosphere: RPA.
      11.   X-ray equipment, plating equipment, or any other photographic
processing equipment utilizing potable water: RPA.
      12.   Auxiliary water supply and/or connections to unapproved water
supply systems: RPA.
      13.   Reclaimed water customers: RPA.
      14.   Recreational vehicle dump stations (sewer), or any other location
where potable water may be exposed to bacteria, virus, or gas: RPA.
      15.   Any premises on which chemicals, oils, solvents, pesticides,
disinfectants, cleaning agents, acids or other pollutants and/or contaminants
are handled in a manner by which they may come in direct contact with potable
water, or there is evidence of the potential to contact potable water (other
than typical, infrequent in-home applications): RPA.
      16.   Materials and piping systems unapproved by the uniform plumbing
code (UPC) or environmental protection agency for potable water usage (for fire
systems see the following listings: subsections A20, A21, and A22 of this
section): contaminant: RPA; pollutant: DCVA.
      17.   Separately metered or unprotected irrigation systems, and
construction water services: RPA or PVB as allowed.
      18.   Any premises where a cross connection is maintained or where
internal backflow protection is required pursuant to the uniform plumbing code:
RPA.
      19.   Multimetered properties with more than one meter connected to
another or any building three (3) stores or greater than thirty four feet (34')
in height from service level: DCVA.
      20.   Fire systems - American Water Works Association class 1 and 2 and
all systems constructed of a piping material not approved for potable water
pursuant to the uniform plumbing code as adopted by the city of Tombstone: DCVA
or double detector CVA. Furthermore, fire systems, class 1 and 2, that are
under the jurisdiction of the city of Tombstone fire department that requires
periodic sprinkler system testing similar to the city's are exempt from this
ordinance: DCVA.
      21.   Fire systems - American Water Works Association classes 3, 4, 5,
and 6: RPA or RPA with detector.
      22.   Fire systems which require backflow protection and where backflow
protection is required on the industrial/domestic service connection that is
located on the same premises, both service connections will have adequate
backflow protection for the highest degree of hazard affecting either system:
RPA. (Requirement may be waived by the city of Tombstone water department.)
   B.   When two (2) or more of the activities listed above are conducted on
the same premises and served by the same service connection or multiple service
connections, the most restrictive backflow prevention method required for any
of the activities conducted on the premises shall be required to be utilized or
installed at each service connection. The order of most restrictive to least
restrictive backflow prevention methods shall be as follows:
      1.   Air gap (most restrictive).
      2.   Reduced pressure principle assembly (RPA).
      3.   Double check value assembly (DCVA).
      4.   Pressure vacuum breaker assembly (PVB) (least restrictive). (Ord. 3-
1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-7: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS FOR BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY:
   A.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed by the customer, at
the customer's expense, and in compliance with the standards and specifications
adopted by the city of Tombstone water department, at each service connection.
The assembly shall have a diameter at least equal to the diameter of the
service connection.
   B.   The assembly shall be in an accessible location approved by the city of
Tombstone water department. The reduced pressure principle assembly, pressure
vacuum break assembly, and the double check valve assembly shall be installed
above ground.
   C.   When a customer desires a continuous water supply, two (2) backflow
prevention assemblies shall be installed parallel to one another at the service
connection to allow a continuous water supply during testing of the backflow
prevention assemblies. When backflow prevention assemblies are installed
parallel to one another, the sum of the cross sectional areas of the assemblies
shall be at least equal to the cross sectional area of the service connection.
   D.   No person shall alter, modify, bypass or remove a backflow prevention
method without the approval of the city of Tombstone water department. (Ord. 3-
1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-8: INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES FOR FIRE SYSTEMS:
In addition to the requirements of section
7-5-7 of this chapter the following shall also apply:
   A.   Fire Systems: Fire protection systems consist of sprinklers, hose
connections, and hydrants. Sprinkler systems may be dry or wet, open or closed.
Systems of fixed spray nozzles may be used indoors or outdoors for protection
of flammable liquid and other hazardous processes. It is standard practice,
especially in cities, to equip automatic sprinkler systems with fire department
pumper connections.
A meter (compound, detector check) should not normally be permitted as part of
a backflow prevention assembly. An exception may be made, however, if the meter
and backflow prevention assembly are specifically designed for that purpose.
For cross connection control, fire protection systems shall be classified on
the basis of water source and arrangement of supplies as follows:
      1.   Class 1: Direct connections from public water mains only; no pumps,
tanks, or reservoirs; no physical connection from other water supplies; no
antifreeze or other additives of any kind; all sprinkler drains discharging to
atmosphere, dry wells, or other safe outlets.
      2.   Class 2: Same as class 1, except that booster pumps may be installed
in the connections from the street mains. Booster pumps do not affect the
portability of the system; it is necessary, however, to avoid drafting so much
water that pressure in the water is reduced below twenty (20) psi.
      3.   Class 3: Direct connection from public water supply main plus one or
more or the following: elevated storage tanks; fire pumps taking suction from
aboveground covered reservoirs or tanks; and pressure tanks. (All storage
facilities are filled or connected to public water only, the water in the tanks
to be maintained in a potable condition.)
      4.   Class 4: Directly supplied from public mains similar to class 1 and
2, and with an auxiliary water supply on or available to the premises; or an
auxiliary supply may be located within one thousand seven hundred feet (1,700')
of the pumper connection. Class 4 systems will normally require backflow
protection at the service connection. The type (air gap or reduced pressure)
will generally depend on the quality of the auxiliary supply.
      5.   Class 5: Directly supplied from public mains, and interconnected
with auxiliary supplies, such as: pumps taking suction from reservoirs exposed
to contamination, or rivers and ponds; driven wells, mills or other industrial
water systems; or where antifreeze or other additives are used. Classes 4 and 5
are systems normally would need maximum protection (air gap or reduced
pressure) to protect the public potable water system.
      6.   Class 6: Combined industrial and fire protection systems supplied
from the public water mains only, with or without gravity storage or pump
suction tanks. Class 6 system protection would depend on the requirements of
both industry and fire protection, and could only be determined by a survey of
the premises.
   B.   When a backflow prevention assembly is required for a water service
connection supplying water only to a fire system, the assembly shall be
installed on the service line in compliance with standard specifications
adopted by the city of Tombstone water department. (Installation of DCVAs or
DDCVAs in a vertical position on the riser may be allowed on fire systems with
the city of Tombstone water department approval.) (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-9: INSPECTION:
A customer's water system shall be available at all times during business
operations for premises inspection by the city of Tombstone water department.
The inspection shall be conducted to determine whether any cross connection or
other hazard potentials exist and to determine compliance with this section and
modifications, if any, pursuant to section
7-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-10: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: Installation permits for the installation of all backflow
prevention assemblies required by the city of Tombstone water department shall
be obtained from the city of Tombstone water department prior to installation.
A separate permit shall be obtained for each required backflow prevention
assembly to be installed. A separate permit shall be required for replacement
of a backflow prevention assembly which has been previously installed.
   B.   Notification: It shall be the duty of the person doing the work
authorized by the permit to notify the city of Tombstone water department,
orally or in writing, that said work is ready for inspection. Such notification
shall be given not less than twenty four (24) hours before the work is to be
inspected and shall be given only if there is reason to believe that the work
done will meet uniform plumbing code and University Of Southern California
standards, as are referenced in the backflow prevention manual.
   C.   Stop Orders: Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions
of the UPC or this code, the city of Tombstone water department or any
authorized representative may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and
any such person shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the city of
Tombstone water department to proceed with the work.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation: City of Tombstone water department or any
authorized employee may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under
provisions of this code, whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis
of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or
regulation of any provision of the UPC or this code. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-11: TEST, MAINTENANCE, RECORDS:
   A.   The customer shall test and service backflow prevention assemblies at
least once a year. If the testing reveals the assembly to be defective or in
unsatisfactory operating condition, the customer shall perform any necessary
repairs, including replacement or overhaul of the assembly, if necessary, which
will return the assembly to satisfactory operating condition.
   B.   If the city of Tombstone water department or a customer learns or
discovers, during the interim the assembly is defective or in unsatisfactory
operating condition, the customer shall perform any necessary repairs,
including replacement or overhaul of the assembly, if necessary, which will
return the assembly to satisfactory operating condition.
   C.   Public water system shall submit a written cross connection incident
report to the Arizona department of environmental quality and the local health
authority within five (5) business days after a cross connection problem occurs
that results in contamination of the public water system. The report shall
address all of the following:
      1.   Date and time of discovery of the unprotected cross connection;
      2.   Nature of the cross connection problem;
      3.   Affected area;
      4.   Cause of the cross connection problem;
      5.   Public health impact;
      6.   Date and text of any public health advisory issued;
      7.   Each corrective action taken; and
      8.   Date of completion of each corrective action.
   D.   The annual testing shall be performed by an individual certified to
conduct such testing by an agency approved by the city of Tombstone water
department. A list of certified, approved and recognized individuals will be
maintained by the city of Tombstone water department and will be available upon
request to all persons required to install or maintain a backflow prevention
assembly. A certification issued to a backflow prevention assembly tester may
be revoked or suspended for improper testing, maintenance, reporting or other
improper practices.
   E.   The customer shall maintain records, on forms approved by the city of
Tombstone water department, of the results of all tests and all servicing,
repairs, overhauls or replacements of the backflow prevention assembly. A copy
of the records shall be promptly submitted to the Tombstone city water
department after completion of the activity for which the record is made. These
records shall include an inventory of backflow prevention assemblies required
by this section and, for each assembly, all of the following information:
      1.   Assembly identification number and description;
      2.   Location;
      3.   Date of test;
      4.   Description of repairs and recommendations for repairs made by the
tester; and
      5.   The tester's name and certificate number.
   F.   Fire systems shall not be out of service for more than eight (8)
consecutive hours due to testing, maintenance, or repairs. The city of
Tombstone's fire department shall be notified immediately of any testing,
maintenance, or repairs that place a fire system out of service. (Ord. 2015-08,
11-11-2015)
7-5-12: MODIFICATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS:
If the city of Tombstone water department determines, after inspection of the
customer's system, that a backflow prevention method less restrictive than that
required in section
7-5-6 of this chapter will provide adequate protection of the public potable
water supply from the degree of hazard potential by the customer's water
system, the customer may appeal to the backflow and cross connection hearing
committee for relief as provided in section
7-5-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-13: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   If the city of Tombstone water department discovers that a customer's
required backflow prevention method has been improperly tested or maintained,
the water service to that service connection shall be disconnected if the
situation is not remedied within the time specified in the notice sent to the
customer as required by this section. The service shall not be restored until
the condition is remedied.
   B.   Water service to a fire sprinkler system shall be subject to
disconnection under this section. If a situation, which will result in
discontinuance of water service in subsection A of this section, is not
remedied within the time provided in the notice sent to the customer, multiple
violations will accrue.
   C.   Prior to disconnecting any water service because a condition set forth
in subsection A of this section exists, the city of Tombstone water department
shall issue a notice to the customer describing the condition and notifying the
customer that the condition must be remedied within fifteen (15) days from the
initial inspection date. If there is no immediate action on the part of the
customer, a second notice by certified mail shall be sent ten (10) days after
the initial inspection date stating that water service will be disconnected
within five (5) days of the second notice. If there is still no action, a turn
off notice shall be sent to the customer stating that service will be
disconnected on a date certain (approximately 2 days from the date of the turn
off notice). (For retrofit notification procedures, see section
7-5-16 of this chapter.)
   D.   The city of Tombstone water department may disconnect, without notice,
water service to any customer when the city of Tombstone water department
discovers that a direct, contaminated cross connection exists in the customer's
water system or that a backflow prevention method has been bypassed or removed.
(Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-14: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL:
An administrative appeal may be requested whenever a violation or dispute of
any of the requirements of this chapter is determined, whether during
construction or at the plan review stage, and the applicant wishes to appeal
the decision of the staff because of code interpretation, unreasonable hardship
or other acceptable reasons. The appeal may be made to the backflow and cross
connection hearing committee as follows:
   A.   The applicant shall file a written appeal on the forms provided by the
city of Tombstone director of public works and services.
   B.   The appeal will be heard by the hearing committee within seven (7)
days, at a regular specified time.
   C.   The hearing committee shall consist of the director of public works and
services, the city of Tombstone building inspector, and the cross connection
supervisor. Additional inspectors or other technical persons may be added for a
particular appeal, at the discretion of the director of public works and
services.
   D.   Adequate information shall be provided by the applicant in order to
fully describe the conditions in question.
   E.   The applicant may, but is not required to personally attend the hearing
committee meeting.
   F.   If an appeal is denied by the hearing committee, the applicant shall
comply or appeal to the city of Tombstone council within ten (10) days of a
denial by the hearing committee. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-15: VIOLATION OF A CIVIL INFRACTION:
It shall be a civil infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for any person, enterprise or corporation to violate any of
the requirements of this chapter. Each day any violation of any provision of
this chapter or the failure to perform any act or duty required by this chapter
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-16: RETROACTIVE APPLICATION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new water customers
or users and all water customers or users existing prior to the enactment date
of this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for multiple metered premises
presenting only a pollution hazard as defined in section
7-5-4 of this chapter existing as of the effective date of this chapter, only
one new or additional backflow prevention assembly within eighteen (18) months
from the initial inspection notice and thereafter only one additional backflow
assembly installation shall be required during any twelve (12) month period.
Noncompliance may result in discontinuance or water service without further
notice.
   B.   Backflow prevention assemblies installed prior to enactment of this
chapter, and which do not comply with the requirements set forth herein, shall
be replaced with assemblies which comply with the standards set forth herein,
within eighteen (18) months from initial inspection notice.
   C.   The initial backflow assembly installation permit fee required by
section
7-5-17 of this chapter shall be waived by the city of Tombstone water
department for retrofit backflow prevention assemblies only.
   D.   Meters documented as running backwards or contamination conditions as
defined in section
7-5-4 of this chapter shall be immediately addressed under the provisions of
subsection
7-5-13D of this chapter. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-17: FEES:
The fee for any permit required pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
7-5-18: BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION MANUAL INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
All information not specifically set forth in this chapter (standard details,
etc.) will be a matter of public record and will be contained in the following
document: "Backflow And Cross Connection Manual". (Ord. 3-1995, 4-28-1995)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Establishment
8-1-2: Personnel
8-1-3: Duties
8-1-4: Records And Procedures
8-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There shall be and is hereby created a department of public works of the city
which shall have cognizance over the municipal water system, streets,
buildings, cemetery, parks, recreation areas, monuments, airport and the
garbage and trash collection and disposal, and any other facility or service
that the common council shall from time to time include. The department shall
be under the supervision of the director of public works. (Ord. 5-78-79, 6-18-
1979)
8-1-2: PERSONNEL:
The department personnel shall include such regular or temporary, full time or
part time employees as the common council, its authorized agent, officer or
department head, shall from time to time designate, appoint and hire. (Ord. 3-
2001, 7-17-2001)
8-1-3: DUTIES:
The department shall operate, maintain, improve, add to or increase the above
listed facilities and services either with the available city work force or by
contract when approved by the common council. (1972 Code)
8-1-4: RECORDS AND PROCEDURES:
Records and procedures necessary for the efficient operation of the department
shall be promulgated, published and issued by the director of public works.
(Ord. 5-78-79, 6-18-1979)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC SPACES REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Rules; Regulations
8-2-2: Violations
8-2-3: Street Performances In Public Spaces
8-2-1: RULES; REGULATIONS:
Within the limits of the city of Tombstone and in or on any public park,
restroom, recreation area, sports complex, parking lot, road, cemetery, or
street under the jurisdiction of the city of Tombstone all persons are
forbidden to do any of the following acts:
   A.   To discharge firearms, firecrackers or fireworks, or to discharge any
air gun or pistol, or any slingshot or similar device, or any bows and arrows,
except in those areas specifically maintained for that purpose by the city; or
to disturb the peace and quiet of any park or recreation area.
   B.   To wilfully damage, deface, destroy or remove park, cemetery, or
recreation area property, or to sit on picnic tables placing feet on benches.
   C.   To distribute any handbills or circulars or to post any handbills,
circulars or notices without the express permission of the common council.
   D.   To swim or wade in or pollute any body of water provided that the
common council may designate specific areas for swimming and wading.
   E.   To injure or mistreat any birds, animals, fish or eggs.
   F.   To fish, except in those areas specifically designated by the common
council.
   G.   To make or kindle a fire in any area other than those areas
specifically maintained for that purpose.
   H.   To make use of a trailer mobile home overnight; to otherwise camp,
lodge or tarry overnight in any area other than those areas specifically
maintained for that purpose.
   I.   To stop, park, ride or drive any horse or other animal, or to propel
any vehicle elsewhere than on the roads, trails or drives provided for such
purposes.
   J.   To use indecent language or engage in indecent, disorderly, or
boisterous conduct; to beg or solicit for any purpose; to gamble or operate a
gambling device of any nature; to litter; to discriminate in any manner against
any person or persons because of race, color or creed or national origin. No
drunken, noisy or disorderly person shall be allowed to remain within any park
or recreation area.
   K.   To vend or sell or offer for sale any merchandise of whatsoever nature
without a written permit from the city clerk.
   L.   To climb upon any park or recreation area property, other than
equipment provided specifically for that purpose.
   M.   No dogs, cats, or other animals shall be allowed unless they be on
leash or chain or be otherwise under physical control.
   N.   No male person over the age of six (6) years shall enter any ladies'
toilet within any park or recreation area or shall go into any vault of any
such toilet; no person shall loiter in the vicinity of any toilet, except that
city employees may enter upon said premises at proper hours for the purpose of
cleaning and repair.
   O.   No person shall unnecessarily focus or throw lights from automobiles or
flashlights or any light producing apparatus upon any campsite or assemblage.
   P.   1. Consume or have in his possession or custody any wine, spirituous
liquor, malt liquor, or other alcoholic beverage except under the conditions
set forth in subsection P2 of this section. Consume or have in his or her
possession or custody without a valid prescription any illegal drug, substance
or paraphernalia.
      2.   Subsection P1 of this section shall not apply to persons above the
legal drinking age if the city council has authorized possession or consumption
in relation to a federal, state or local holiday or event or who have obtained
a permit from the city clerk on behalf of a recognized group or organization,
which is described in such a permit, authorizing them to possess or consume
alcohol or spirituous liquor in the designated area for so long as they conduct
themselves reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
permit and are otherwise in compliance with all other laws, including, but not
limited to, subsection K of this section.
      3.   The city clerk is authorized to issue permits allowing the
consumption and possession of beer or other malted beverages in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title.
      4.   Any violation of this chapter constitutes a crime and is punishable
under the laws of the state of Arizona. (Ord. 2007-02, 2-13-2007)
8-2-2: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), by
imprisonment not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   B.   Any person bringing prohibited articles within the confines of the park
or recreation area shall, upon being convicted thereof, forfeit the prohibited
articles. (Ord. 2007-02, 2-13-2007)
8-2-3: STREET PERFORMANCES IN PUBLIC SPACES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   PERFORM: Includes, but is not limited to, the following activities: acting,
singing, playing musical instruments, pantomime, juggling, magic, dancing and
reciting.
   PUBLIC AREAS: Include sidewalks, boardwalks, parks, parking lots and all
other public ways located in the city, as appropriate.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to encourage and permit street
performance in public areas.
   C.   Permitted Locations; Conduct:
      1.   Performance may be permitted in the following outdoor public areas
of the Schieffelin historic district:
         City boardwalk on Allen Street from the Visitor Center through the Art
Gallery
         City boardwalk on 4th Street from the Visitor Center through the
Chamber Of Commerce
         City park at the corner of 3rd and Allen Streets
         City parking lot on Allen Street between 3rd and 4th Streets
      2.   A performer may not block the passage of the public through a public
area. If a crowd gathers to see or hear a performer such that the passage of
the public through a public area is blocked, a police officer may disperse that
portion of the crowd that is blocking the passage of the public. If the
blocking of passage persists, the officer shall cause the performer to relocate
to a less congested area.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any performer to totally obstruct public
spaces and sidewalks or boardwalks or to interrupt free passage along them.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any performer to utilize electrical
amplification equipment for instruments, voice or sound effects with the
exception of battery operated devices used not louder than normal voice.
      5.   No performer or group of performers shall perform at a distance of
less than thirty feet (30') from another performer or group of performers that
already is performing.
      6.   Street performing shall not infringe on events for which a permit
has been issued so as not to detract from the stated purpose of the permittee
or permitted organization.
   D.   Exclusion Of Certain Areas: At the discretion of the marshal, certain
designated areas may be excluded from further performances.
   E.   Acceptance Of Contributions:
      1.   A performer may accept contributions during the performance.
      2.   The performance and acceptance of contributions, if such occur in a
permitted area will not constitute disorderly conduct.
   F.   Compliance: The conduct and behavior of all street performers will be
in compliance with this code, which includes, but is not limited to, public
spaces regulations, advertising, solicitation or littering.
   G.   Permit Required: Street performers shall be required to obtain a permit
from the city clerk prior to performing. Said permit shall require proof of
identity, acknowledgment of these rules and regulations, and the payment of a
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) which shall be valid for the balance of the
calendar year.
   H.   Violations: Violations shall be subject to the provisions of section
8-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-11, 12-13-2011)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS, RUBBISH, LITTER AND OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Removal Required
8-3-2: Failure To Remove
8-3-3: Notice To Remove
8-3-4: Removal Expense By City
8-3-5: Special Tax
8-3-6: Owner's Failure To Remove Unlawful
8-3-7: Vehicles On Sidewalks
8-3-8: Obstructions
8-3-9: Benches On Sidewalks
8-3-10: Litter
8-3-1: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
All persons owning or occupying any building, grounds or premises within the
city are hereby required to remove therefrom all dirt, debris, rubbish,
garbage, weeds and brush, and from all sidewalks adjacent thereto; and are
hereby required to keep and maintain the same free and clear of all dirt,
debris, rubbish, garbage, weeds and brush. (Ord. 126, 10-13-1947)
8-3-2: FAILURE TO REMOVE:
Should any owner or occupant of any building, grounds or premises within the
city fail, neglect or refuse to remove from said buildings, grounds or
premises, or from the sidewalk adjacent thereto the matters and objects
referred to in section
8-3-1 of this chapter, or should any owner or occupant fail to keep and
maintain any such building, grounds or premises or any sidewalks adjacent
thereto, free and clear of such matters referred to in section
8-3-1 of this chapter, then the chief of police shall report the same to the
mayor and common council. (Ord. 126, 10-13-1947)
8-3-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
The mayor and common council, or any one of them, shall investigate the said
report and if, in the opinion of the mayor and the common council, the terms of
this chapter are being violated, then the said mayor and common council shall
direct the director of public works to mail a notice in writing to the owner or
occupant of the said building, grounds or premises, at his last known address,
to remove the dirt, debris, rubbish, garbage, weeds or brush from the said
buildings, grounds or premises, or the sidewalks adjacent thereto within thirty
(30) days' time. (Ord. 6-78-79, 6-18-1979)
8-3-4: REMOVAL EXPENSE BY CITY:
Should the owner or occupant of said building, grounds or premises fail, within
said thirty (30) day period of time, to remove said matters from said
buildings, grounds or premises or from any sidewalk adjacent thereto, the
director of public works is hereby authorized and directed to remove or destroy
or cause to be removed or destroyed any and all such dirt, debris, rubbish,
garbage, weeds, or brush at the expense of such owner or occupant or either of
them; and the director of public works is hereby directed to forthwith prepare
a verified statement and account of all the expenses incurred in or occasioned
by, or incident to such removal and destruction or either of them, and to file
such verified statement with the city clerk who will submit the statement to
the county treasurer or tax collector of Cochise County, Arizona; a copy of
which said verified statement shall be recorded in the recorder's office of the
county, said statement and account of expense shall include a description of
the premises on which said work was done, the name and address of the last
known owner of said premises, and specify the date on which said written notice
was given. (Ord. 6-78-79, 6-18-1979)
8-3-5: SPECIAL TAX:
All such expenses incurred in connection with or incident to such removal and
destruction or either of them, as fixed and determined by said verified
statement and account filed with the county treasurer and tax collector shall
constitute a special tax or assessment and a tax lien against said buildings,
grounds and premises as of the date of the giving of said notice by the city
clerk; and the county treasurer is hereby directed to add item of costs to the
next regular tax statement for state, county or city taxes levied against the
respective tract, parcel or lot of lands described, and shall collect the
amounts so assessed and levied at the time and in the manner and subject to the
same procedure and penalties or delinquencies that other state, county or city
taxes are collected; and after collected the county treasurer shall pay the
same to the city as provided by law. (Ord. 126, 10-13-1947)
8-3-6: OWNER'S FAILURE TO REMOVE UNLAWFUL:
In addition to the foregoing provisions, every owner or occupant of any
buildings, grounds or premises within the city who shall fail, neglect or
refuse to remove from any such buildings, grounds or premises owned or occupied
by him or from the sidewalks adjacent thereto any dirt, debris, rubbish,
garbage, weeds or brush, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to keep and
maintain the same or any of them free and clear of any and all dirt, debris,
rubbish, garbage, weeds or brush shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 126, 10-13-1947)
8-3-7: VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall drive an automobile, truck or motorcycle, or ride a bicycle or
tricycle upon any sidewalk of the city, or use thereon any roller skates,
coasters or similar device or article; provided, however, that nothing herein
shall prevent any person from crossing such walk in going to or from his
premises or premises under his control, or on a driveway. (1972 Code)
8-3-8: OBSTRUCTIONS:
No person shall place or cause to be placed upon any public street, alley, or
sidewalk in said city (and no person owning, occupying or having the control of
any premises in said city shall suffer or permit to remain in front thereof
upon any such sidewalk or the half of any such street or alley next to any such
premises) anything which may or shall obstruct the free passage of such street,
alley or sidewalk for more than one hour at any one time; provided, however,
that nothing in this section shall apply to goods or merchandise in actual
course of receipt or delivery or removal, to hydrants, lamps, awnings or
hitching posts instead erected in accordance with the provisions of this code
or by permission of the mayor and common council or to ornamental or shade
trees that are planted in compliance with the provisions of this code. (Ord.
52)
8-3-9: BENCHES ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall sit on the backs of, and place feet on the seats of benches
placed on sidewalks for the convenience of pedestrians. (1972 Code)
8-3-10: LITTER:
It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for anyone to cast litter on the public ways
of the city. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Policy
8-4-2: Permit Required
8-4-3: Assignment Of Gravesites
8-4-4: Maintenance Of Gravesites
8-4-5: Cemetery Inspector
8-4-6: Annexes
8-4-7: Designation Of Annex
8-4-8: Policy On Main Section
8-4-9: Control Of Annex
8-4-10: Dimensions And Layout
8-4-11: Charges
8-4-12: Concrete Covering And Markers
8-4-13: Grave Purchases
8-4-14: Opening Date
8-4-15: Interment
8-4-16: Headstones
8-4-17: Vases And Flower Containers
8-4-1: POLICY:
Only bona fide residents of the city may be buried in this cemetery. In
extenuating circumstances the common council may grant approval for the burial
of a nonresident in the cemetery. There will be no section of the cemetery
designated as a "potter's field" not restricted as to race, color or creed.
Sales of burial plots are restricted to individuals or their families only. No
burial plots shall be sold to mortuaries or any other group of people. (Ord.
14-1996, 8-15-1996)
8-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit shall be required of any person or group wishing to do any work in the
cemetery that involves excavation of a gravesite or concrete and/or stone work
on the gravesite. This permit will be issued by the city clerk upon the payment
of a five dollar ($5.00) fee. (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-3: ASSIGNMENT OF GRAVESITES:
The city clerk shall assign gravesites and record the same on a cemetery plot
map maintained in his office. (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-4: MAINTENANCE OF GRAVESITES:
It is the responsibility of the family and/or friends of the family of the
deceased to maintain a gravesite. Within one year of the burial, the family or
friends of the deceased will make the gravesite permanent with coping and
covering in keeping with the cemetery appearance, and as designated by the
cemetery inspector. (Ord. 2006-09, 12-12-2006)
8-4-5: CEMETERY INSPECTOR:
Inspecting authority to ensure the above sections are complied with are vested
in the director of public works. He may delegate any part of the inspection
work. (Ord. 8-78-79, 6-18-1979)
8-4-6: ANNEXES:
Policy and regulations pertaining to future annexes will be announced when
appropriate. (1972 Code)
8-4-7: DESIGNATION OF ANNEX:
In accordance with section
8-4-6 of this chapter that portion of land acquired from the state of Arizona
by patent no. G-273 November 18, 1974, and recorded in docket 979 page 537 at
the office of the county recorder, Cochise County shall be known as the annex
to the Tombstone municipal cemetery. (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-8: POLICY ON MAIN SECTION:
The policy on the existing cemetery as set forth in sections
8-4-1 through
8-4-5 of this chapter is amended by the following statement: "After the
official opening of the annex to the Tombstone municipal cemetery burials in
the main section of the Tombstone municipal cemetery are restricted to existing
family plots, sites adjacent to or near the grave or graves of members of
interred family, sites for which past arrangements exist and other sites
approved by the common council on an individual basis." (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-
1977)
8-4-9: CONTROL OF ANNEX:
The city of Tombstone will construct, maintain, operate and control the annex
to the Tombstone municipal cemetery. (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-10: DIMENSIONS AND LAYOUT:
Physical layout to be as follows:
   A.   Adult graves to be four feet by ten feet (4' x 10') in blocks from six
(6) to ten (10) graves.
   B.   Baby graves to be approximately twenty four inches by thirty six inches
(24" x 36") and may or may not be in blocks.
   C.   Cremation graves to be approximately twelve inches by twenty four
inches (12" x 24") and may or may not be in blocks.
   D.   Blocks to be numbered and graves within a block to be lettered.
   E.   Monuments or markers not allowed above ground level. Approved flat
marker level with the ground surface may be installed.
   F.   Vases or containers for cut flowers may be installed if permanently set
at ground level.
   G.   The corners of all blocks to be marked with a monument set in concrete
and properly oriented and marked.
   H.   Graves within a block to be lettered serially from left to right when
facing north.
   I.   Trees and shrubs are not allowed on gravesites except as provided by
the city.
   J.   The surface of each grave to be covered with roofing paper on similar
material to prevent the growth of vegetation and then covered with rocks
screened at approximately three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter. (Ord. 76-77-
06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-11: CHARGES:
Charges are as follows:
   FEE SCHEDULE
Regular Fees Resident Nonresident
Regular Fees                            Resident       Nonresident
Plot fee (full size)                    $250.00        $300.00
Open/close fee by machine               250.00         300.00
Open/close fee by hand                  500.00         550.00
Plot fee (cremation)                    150.00         200.00
Open/close fee                          100.00         150.00
Other Fees (added to regular fees)
Weekend and holiday work                100.00 extra   100.00 extra
Early burial (less than 2 days' notice) 100.00 per day 100.00 per day
Exhumation (full grave)                 600.00         600.00
Exhumation (cremation)                  200.00         200.00
Burial with vault                       100.00 extra   100.00 extra
 
(Ord. 14-1996, 8-15-1996)
8-4-12: CONCRETE COVERING AND MARKERS:
   A.   Headstones shall be permitted within the cemetery as long as they are
within the dimensions of twelve inches by twenty four inches (12" x 24"). These
headstones shall be purchased by the family of the deceased and installed by
the city. The installation charge is twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   B.   Headstones shall be installed subject to the business schedule of the
city. Headstones to be installed by Memorial Day or any other special day must
be received at least two (2) weeks prior to that day. (Ord. 14-1996, 8-15-1996)
8-4-13: GRAVE PURCHASES:
Graves may be purchased prior to death (pre-need) or at the time of death (now-
need). More than one gravesite may be purchased but the common council may
limit the sales in individual cases if the sales appear to be for speculative
purposes. A deed will be issued by the city for each gravesite. The gravesite
will be described by block number and grave letter as shown on the recorded
annex to the Tombstone municipal cemetery. Persons who purchased a gravesite on
a pre-need basis and no longer have such need may sell it but a copy of the
transfer of ownership must be furnished to the city. (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-14: OPENING DATE:
The official opening date of the annex to the Tombstone municipal cemetery is
July 1, 1977. (Ord. 76-77-06, 3-9-1977)
8-4-15: INTERMENT:
Persons wishing to conduct funeral operations or exhumations at the Tombstone
municipal cemetery shall notify city officials at least two (2) working days
(excluding weekends and official city holidays) in advance of the services to
be conducted. (Ord. 2-1993, 8-16-1993)
8-4-16: HEADSTONES:
   A.   Headstones shall be permitted within the cemetery as long as they are
within the dimensions of twelve inches by twenty four inches (12" x 24"). These
headstones shall be purchased by the family of the deceased and installed by
the city. The installation charge is twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   B.   Headstones shall be installed subject to the business schedule of the
city. Headstones to be installed by Memorial Day or any other special day must
be received at least two (2) weeks prior to that day. (Ord. 14-1996, 8-15-1996)
8-4-17: VASES AND FLOWER CONTAINERS:
   A.   All vases and flower containers must be of metal or any other type of
unbreakable material. Containers may be set in the ground at ground level. No
more than two (2) containers shall be permitted on any one grave within any
gravesite.
   B.   All containers of breakable material shall be removed from the grave
immediately after the gravesite services by cemetery personnel.
   C.   Fresh flowers must be removed within three (3) days. If not done by
family/friends, the cemetery personnel will remove these materials. Artificial
flowers will be removed by the city if they become unsightly or are blown
around the grounds. (Ord. 14-1996, 8-15-1996)
CHAPTER 5
PARADES; PROCESSIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Animal Use Permits
8-5-3: Exceptions
8-5-4: Applications
8-5-5: Findings Required
8-5-6: Conditions To Permit
8-5-7: Prior Application
8-5-8: Notice Of Issuance Of Denial
8-5-9: Appeal Procedure
8-5-10: Contents Of Permit
8-5-11: Duty Of Permittee
8-5-12: Revocation Of Permit
8-5-13: Public Conduct During A Meeting, Assembly Or Parade
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ACTIVITY: A parade or public meeting or assembly.
FUNERAL PROCESSION: A single direct movement from a mortuary or church to the
place of burial of a human body, under direction of an authorized funeral
director.
PARADE: A march or procession of any kind.
PUBLIC MEETING OR ASSEMBLY: A planned or organized gathering of a group of
persons, or any ceremony, show, exhibition or pageant which may reasonably be
expected to result in the gathering of a group of persons, upon any public
street, park or other public grounds. (Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-2: ANIMAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Animal Use Permit Required:
      1.   In addition to the business license required pursuant to title 4 of
this code, shall require each owner, peddler, merchant, itinerant merchant,
solicitor or proprietor, or any agent, assign, or subdivision of any kind, to
obtain from the city clerk an animal use permit, hereinafter referred to as
"permit", to be used solely for the operation of commercial enterprises or
businesses using animals or animal drawn vehicles on public streets within the
limits of the city of Tombstone. Permit holders shall not be granted a permit
unless the permit holder has acknowledged in writing that this ordinance has
been read in its entirety and that, by being granted a permit under this
ordinance, the permit holder consents to the rules, regulations, restrictions,
and penalties embodied in this ordinance and the laws of the state of Arizona
and the city of Tombstone.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, enterprise or business,
hereinafter referred to as "person", to be licensed under title 4 of this code
or permitted under this title to operate an animal or animal drawn vehicle
(also known as a wagon) on the streets of the city of Tombstone for commercial
purposes; provided, however, the city clerk may issue licenses and permits for
said activities subject to the terms and conditions of this ordinance and such
other reasonable terms or conditions as the mayor and common council may
impose. The mayor and common council have authority to promulgate rules and
regulations relating to such licenses and permits in addition to those
contained herein.
   B.   Principal Also Liable: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or
entity, or any officer or director thereof, employing any employees, shall also
be liable for the violation of any provision of this ordinance by its employee.
   C.   Indemnity: The holder of any permit issued under the terms of this
ordinance shall release and indemnify, defend and save harmless the city, it
officers, agents and employees from and against any and all claims, actions,
causes of action, demands, judgments, costs, expenses, and all damages of any
kind and nature incurred by or insuring to any person whatsoever predicated
upon injury to death or any person to damage to property, public or private, or
whatever ownership, or damage to business, provided such injury, death, loss or
damage shall arise out of or be connected directly or indirectly with the
exercise of any right or privilege granted by such a permit.
   D.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   No permit shall be issued or remain in effect unless the permittee,
at the permittee's expenses and without cost to the city, procures, and
maintain in force and on file with the city clerk sufficient evidence of a
general liability policy naming the city of Tombstone as an additional insured
covering bodily injury, including death, in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) coverage for
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.
      2.   Such insurance coverage constitutes a minimum requirement and shall
in no way be deemed to limit or lessen the ability of the permittee under the
terms of such permit. Permittee is encouraged to purchase additional coverage
if at no cost to the city.
      3.   An endorsement shall be included on the required policy, providing
for thirty (30) days' notice to the city of any material change or
cancellation.
   E.   Designated Hours And Locations Of Operation:
      1.   The mayor and common council hereby promulgate rules and regulations
designating the hours of operation and the acceptable areas, sites and streets
in which animals and animal drawn vehicles may be ridden or operated for
commercial purposes. The mayor and common council, or its designee may limit
the number of animals and animal drawn vehicles in any area or within the
limits of the city of Tombstone if such limitations are needed for the health,
safety or welfare of the general public. Limitations shall be temporary and
only for the period determined to address an immediate issue of health, safety
or welfare. Limitations shall not be made unless reasonable and timely notice
is given to the owner or operator specifying the reason for the temporary
limitation. The term "operator" is intended to include persons driving, riding,
or controlling animals.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an animal or animal
drawn vehicle for commercial purposes at times or locations other than those
permitted and stated on the permit.
      3.   The city clerk is authorized to issue periodic special use permits
to peddlers, vendors and persons, waiving the normal hours and defined areas of
operation when special days or events are being celebrated.
      4.   The hours of operation shall be from dawn to dusk.
      5.   The designated route(s) and loading/unloading zone(s) shall be
mapped and filed with the office of the city clerk on the effective date of
this ordinance and printed or attached to the permit.
   F.   Application: An application for a permit under these provisions shall
be made to the city clerk and shall include the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number, both business and personal
of the applicant; in the case of an S corporation or closely held corporations,
limited liability company or partnership, the names of the shareholders or
owners, partners of officers with authority to act on behalf of the corporation
or partnership.
      2.   The number of animals and animal drawn vehicles to be operated by
permit holder.
      3.   A specific description of the area and the streets on which the
animal drawn vehicle is to be operated; to include a description of city
property and proposed ticket booths or structures.
      4.   Such other information as the city clerk may require; including the
name of animal riders or animal drawn vehicle drivers, their ages and driver
license numbers. After submission of initial application, the same information
must be submitted for new drivers at the time the driver is hired. Permit
holders shall be responsible for keeping the information contained on their
application current.
   G.   Requirements For Issuance: A permit issued under this section shall be
subject to the following requirements:
      1.   The permit shall be valid for a period of not more than twelve (12)
months after the date of issuance and may be revoked or suspended for cause.
The expiration date of each permit shall be shown on the permit, and each
permit shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the expiration date.
Any permit holder may renew a permit by submitting the same application with
any updates or changes noted.
      2.   A permit issued under this ordinance is valid only for the
applicant. However, said permit may be transferred to the applicant's heirs,
successors or assigns upon approval of the City Council.
      3.   In addition to the permit holder's name and such other information
required by the City Clerk, the permit shall contain the following:
         a.   The period of time for which the permit is issued;
         b.   A statement that the permit issued is not transferable unless
approved by the City Council. In the case of a corporation, limited liability
company or partnership, it shall be unlawful for the permit holder to transfer
the permit to any person, shareholder, partner, owner or other entity not
listed on the original application. In the case of an organization application,
more than one party may be listed as the permissible permit holder for the
organization.
         c.   The locations and hours of the operation; and
         d.   A statement that the permit is subject to the provisions of this
section.
      4.   The permit holder(s) shall designate by signing the permit that:
         a.   The permit holder is authorized to sign the permit;
         b.   The information contained in the application and permit are true
and accurate to the best of the signor's knowledge and belief;
         c.   This chapter has been read and understood in its entirety and
that the permit holder consents and binds those operating under the permit to
the rules, regulations, restrictions and penalties described herein.
   H.   Standards Of Issuance And Renewal:
      1.   If the city clerk finds upon application for a new permit that
existing commercial animal drawn transportation for hire is adequate to meet
the public convenience the permit application shall be taken by the city clerk
to the mayor and common council for a final determination.
      2.   If the mayor and common council find that the particular commercial
transportation for hire in the city will not place an undue burden on the
health, safety, or welfare of its citizens and that additional commercial
transportation will serve the public convenience and necessity and the
applicant can satisfy the legal and financial obligations or responsibilities
of this ordinance, and is willing and able to perform such public
transportation and to conform to the provisions of this ordinance, then the
city clerk shall be instructed to issue a permit to the applicant in accordance
with the regulations and limitations stated in subsection I of this section.
      3.   The mayor and common council shall take into consideration the
number of animal drawn vehicles already in operation, whether existing
transportation is adequate to meet the public convenience, the probable effect
of increased service on local traffic conditions, the character, experience and
financial responsibility of the applicant, the number, kind and type of
equipment being used in the enterprise.
      4.   No permit shall be issued by the city unless the applicant has
certified in writing to the city clerk that each owner/operator has
demonstrated his or her knowledge of horses or other such hoofed animals,
animal drawn vehicles, and the handling of the combination of the animals and
animal drawn vehicles.
   I.   Restrictions: A person or firm to whom a permit has been issued
hereunder is subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The rider or operator of an animal or animal drawn vehicle must be
least eighteen (18) years of age and the permit holder shall be a trained
operator who can evaluate and confirm the competency levels of the rider or
operator and shall have knowledge of all applicable transportation codes of the
state of Arizona and must comply with the same when subject to this chapter.
      2.   Permittee shall maintain premises and equipment in a clean and safe
condition, and adhere to state laws and local regulations pertaining to the
proper and humane treatment of animals. Maltreatment to, or neglect of the
animals could result in civil or criminal penalties for offending parties.
      3.   Permittee shall immediately notify the city clerk of any change of
address or substantial change in equipment or circumstances.
   J.   Fees: The fees for permits under this section, which apply to
commercial use of animals and animal drawn vehicles, may be prorated if issued
for less than one year shall be as follows:
      1.   Nonrefundable annual application fee: One hundred fifty dollars
($150.00); (Ord. 1-1998, 4-2-1998)
      2.   Annual permit fee for loading area in the Tombstone historic
preservation district: Three hundred twenty dollars ($320.00) per vehicle or
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per animal if no vehicle is involved; and (Ord.
1-1998, 4-2-1998; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
      3.   Special use permits for animals and animal drawn vehicles shall not
exceed twenty dollars ($20.00) per vehicle or per animal without a vehicle, for
each event. A special use permit shall be valid for a twenty four (24) hour
period after its effective date or until the conclusion of the event for which
the permit is issued, whichever comes first.
   K.   Parades And Special Events: No permit shall be required for any person
riding an animal or driving an animal drawn vehicle in a duly authorized parade
or special event authorized by the city unless otherwise ordered by the mayor
and common council. Each permit applicant for parade or special event must
carry the minimum amount of insurance as specified herein prior to the issuance
of a special use permit.
   L.   Stopping And Loading Of Passengers: The mayor and common council shall
establish, fund the construction of, and clearly designate stop and loading
zones for animals and animal drawn vehicles. Only designated stop and loading
zones will be used by the rider or operator for loading or unloading riders or
passengers. No unauthorized zones will be permitted or condoned, except when
emergencies arise or when the public safety, health and welfare are paramount
considerations or when designated by a police officer.
   M.   Traffic And Human Regulations And Enforcement:
      1.   Persons controlling animals and operators of the animals or the
types of animal drawn vehicles referenced herein shall comply with all
applicable vehicle traffic laws and regulations pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-625,
including compliance with stop and yield signs, staying on the streets or
designated areas as described in subsection L of this section, and maintaining
equipment in a manner prescribed by law. The animal or vehicle shall not be
left unattended in a public access area, whether hitched or untied.
Additionally, operators and permit holders shall be jointly and severally
responsible and liable for the humane treatment of all animals involved in the
business for which an animal is used.
      2.   At no time will a moving animal or an animal drawn vehicle be
authorized to travel faster than the natural walking pace of the animal pulling
a vehicle or being ridden while within the limits of the city of Tombstone.
After that animal has begun walking at its natural walking pace, it shall be
presumed that the use of whips, straps or other tools or devices (including
hands and feet) against the animal was intended to speed the animal to a pace
faster than its natural walk. Passing any moving vehicle or other animal drawn
vehicle is strictly prohibited.
      3.   The city marshal, deputy marshals, the animal control officer, and
elected or appointed officer as defined in article II, section 5 of the city
charter, are authorized under this ordinance to enforce the provisions
contained therein in accordance with subsection M5 of this section.
      4.   Any rider or operator of an animal or animal drawn vehicle
determined to be in violation of this ordinance shall be cited and provided a
date for a hearing before the city magistrate. If it is determined by the city
magistrate that the rider or operator as described herein violated this
ordinance, the rider or operator shall be found responsible of a civil traffic
violation or civil municipal code violation and city magistrate shall fine the
violator not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and provide notice
of the conviction and penalty to city clerk. Any rider or operator found to be
in violation of this ordinance shall be barred from operating any animal or
animal drawn vehicle within the limits of the city of Tombstone for a period of
thirty (30) days. Any rider or operator found to be in violation of this
ordinance three (3) times within a one hundred twenty (120) day period shall be
barred from operating an animal or animal drawn vehicle for commercial purposes
within the limits of the city of Tombstone for a period of one (1) year. The
office of city clerk shall send to the permit holder via certified mail a
notice of suspension and a notification of cease and desist. The suspension of
a permit shall take effect ten (10) days after notice mailed unless a hearing
is requested in accordance with subsection N of this section. If a hearing is
timely requested, the suspension shall automatically be stayed pending the
outcome of the hearing.
      5.   The office of city marshal shall have the authority to use any means
reasonably necessary to enforce this ordinance. The marshal or a deputy shall
serve upon the operator a citation to remove the operator if necessary. The
citation shall be in the form of standard traffic citation and afford the
operator the same rights and duties as any other person issued a citation
within the limits of the city of Tombstone. Copies of all citations issued
under this ordinance shall be delivered to the City Magistrate.
      6.   Permit holders shall have thirty five (35) days from the day of
mailing to make payments due under this ordinance. The city clerk shall have
the authority to suspend a permit until all outstanding payments due under this
ordinance have been made. The office of city clerk and the office of city
marshal are authorized to take any steps reasonably necessary to enforce this
ordinance.
   N.   Hearings:
      1.   Riders/Operators: Upon written request directed to the city clerk,
the thirty (30) day ban shall be automatically stayed beginning the next
business day. The written request shall be forwarded to the office of city
magistrate and a hearing pertaining to the violation of this ordinance shall be
heard within seven (7) days from the date the notice is received by the city
magistrate. If no stay is requested, the city magistrate shall hold a hearing
concerning the citation within thirty (30) days from the issuance of the
citation.
      2.   Permit Holders: Upon written request directed to the city clerk, a
permit holder whose license has been suspended under this ordinance may request
a hearing before the mayor and common council within forty eight (48) hours
from the date of the receipt of that request. The sole purpose of this hearing
shall be to request that the suspension be vacated or stayed or to request an
extension before the suspension takes effect. (Ord. 1-1998, 4-2-1998)
   O.   Style Of Animal Drawn Vehicle: The historic preservation commission
(HPC) shall approve the styling for animal drawn vehicles prior to the issuance
of a permit. In the event the HPC denies approval, the applicant may appeal
that decision to the mayor and common council. The decision of the mayor and
common council is final. Any vehicle approved prior to the execution of this
ordinance is considered grandfathered. (Ord. 1-1998, 4-2-1998; amd. Ord. 2015-
01, 7-14-2015)
   P.   Number Of Animal Drawn Vehicle Passengers:
      1.   The number of passengers for each such vehicle shall not exceed the
number of seats on such vehicle.
      2.   Only authorized employees may ride outside or on top of the vehicle.
Animals are prohibited from riding on the animal drawn vehicle.
      3.   The improper transportation of passengers could result in the
suspension or revocation of the applicant's permit.
   Q.   Waste Control: Efficient provisions should be made for the immediate
and prompt removal of material deposited by animals. Failure to comply with
this provision could result in suspension and/or revocation of the permit.
   R.   Additional Insurance Coverage: If at any time the city clerk or the
city's insurance underwriter should determine that the licensee's insurance
coverage is inadequate to provide coverage for the potential claims that could
occur for a vehicle accident or runaway situation, or such other incident, the
permit holder hereby agrees to carry additional coverage or a special umbrella
coverage, for use in the event of a serious accident. The permit holder may ask
the mayor and common council to be the final arbiters in the event the permit
holder does not or cannot agree to carry additional coverage or special
umbrella coverage. Upon a written request from the city clerk to acquire such
coverage, the permit holder shall provide written acknowledgment that such
coverage has been purchased within twenty (20) days of notice. This will
include a copy of the additional insurance coverage form. Copies of this
acknowledgment and insurance form shall be mailed, receipt requested, to:
      1.   The city clerk.
      2.   The city attorney.
      Failure to do so may result in suspension or revocation of the permit
unless good cause for noncompliance is stated. However, due to the serious
consequences of being under insured, even good cause for noncompliance may
result in suspension or revocation the mayor and common council.
   S.   Inspections Of Animals And Animal Drawn Vehicles:
      1.   The vehicle and animals may be inspected by the office of city
marshal or office of city clerk with or without notice. This inspection may
include, but not be limited to, brakes, harnesses, wheels, axles, all safety
lights and signs, tongue and overall appearance of the vehicle.
      2.   The animals used in the operation of a business under this ordinance
may be inspected by the city marshal, state livestock inspector/animal control
officer or a licensed veterinarian selected by the owner/operator, or if the
owner/operator is unable or unwilling to select a licensed veterinarian within
a reasonable time, then the city clerk or marshal may select a licensed
veterinarian to inspect the animals. Inspections shall be done in a manner that
does not substantially interfere with the business unless it is determined by
the person inspecting the animal or vehicle that it is or may be a substantial
risk to the health, safety or welfare of the animals or public. The city clerk
or marshal may hire a licensed veterinarian without the owner's consent in
emergency situations. Owners/operators shall pay for all costs associated with
the inspection by a licensed veterinarian if an inspection shows that the
animal is being neglected or mistreated.
   T.   Operation/Contract Agreement: The mayor and common council are hereby
authorized to place additional definitive restrictions on the permittee by a
means of a written operation/contract agreement. The general types of
considerations to be included in the said agreement are: route determination,
roadway maintenance, loading and unloading sites; hours of operation; animal
welfare, treatment and care; appearance and condition of a vehicle; vehicle
modifications; expiration and amendment clauses; and authorized seating
capacity per vehicle.
   U.   Violations:
      1.   Violations of this ordinance, other than traffic violations
described in subsections (M) and (W), constitute a civil municipal code
violation and shall be subject to fines as imposed by the City Magistrate of
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) plus surcharges and
assessments.
      2.   Each day a violation should continue to occur shall constitute a
separate violation of this ordinance subject to fines as imposed by the City
Magistrate.
   V.   Suspension Or Revocation:
      1.   The violation of Arizona traffic regulations criminal code or city
ordinances could result in suspension of operations up to one (1) year.
      2.   A permit shall be immediately revoked if the permit holder or agents
are found guilty of operating an animal or animal drawn vehicle under the
influence of alcohol or an illegal drug. Operating a vehicle in a reckless
manner could also be grounds for suspending or revoking a permit.
      3.   A permit shall be immediately revoked upon the cancellation of
insurance as required by this ordinance.
      4.   The city clerk shall have the authority to suspend under this
ordinance and recommend revocations to the mayor and common council. The office
of city clerk and the office of city marshal are authorized to take any steps
reasonably necessary to enforce this chapter.
   W.   Operating Under The Influence Drugs Or Alcohol: It shall be unlawful
for any person under the influence of drugs or alcohol to operate, drive, and
ride an animal or an animal drawn vehicle on a public street. Any person found
to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the same fines and penalties as specified in the Arizona
Revised Statutes for similar drug and alcohol offenses concerning motor
vehicles.
   X.   Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this chapter is, for any reason, held to be illegal or unconstitutional,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions.
   Y.   Conflict: All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with
this ordinance are repealed.
(Ord. 1-1998, 4-2-1998; Ord. 2021-3, 5-11-2021; Ord. 2024-2, 2-13-2024; Ord.
2024-04, 8-13-2024)
8-5-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   Funeral processions;
   B.   A governmental agency within the scope of its functions;
   C.   Students going to and from school class or participating in educational
activities, providing such activity is authorized by the school district and is
under the immediate direction and supervision of the school authorities
authorized by the school district to approve and supervise such activity. (Ord.
13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-4: APPLICATIONS:
Application for permits under this chapter must be filed with the city clerk
not less than five (5) days in advance of the proposed activity. Late
applications may be accepted if filed sufficiently in advance of the date of
the proposed activity to enable the city clerk to determine that said activity
will meet the requirements set forth below.
The application shall be in writing and shall give the following information:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the
permit. If the activity proposed is to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
any organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and the authorized head of such organization shall be stated;
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
directly in charge of and responsible for the activity;
   C.   The purpose of the activity;
   D.   The date, time and location or route of the proposed activity;
   E.   The approximate number of persons who will participate in the activity
and the number and kind of vehicles, equipment and animals which will be used;
   F.   Plans for the assembly and dispersal of the parade, including ties and
locations thereof;
   G.   A statement as to whether a permit has been requested or obtained from
any other city within which said activity shall commence, terminate or occur in
part;
   H.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion
of the streets proposed to be traversed;
   I.   Any additional information which the marshal shall find reasonably
necessary to a determination of the findings required below. (Ord. 13-1996, 8-
6-1996)
8-5-5: FINDINGS REQUIRED:
The city clerk or his/her designated representative shall issue a permit as
provided for hereunder when from a consideration of the application and from
such other information as may otherwise be obtained he or she finds that:
   A.   The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic;
   B.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles will not unduly
interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to,
areas where the activity will take place or areas contiguous to such area;
   C.   The conduct of such activity will not unduly interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire, or the movement of other
emergency equipment;
   D.   The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property;
   E.   Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising the
goods, wares or merchandise of a particular business establishment. (Ord. 13-
1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-6: CONDITIONS TO PERMIT:
The city clerk shall have the authority to impose such conditions as are
necessary to ensure that all of the findings mentioned in section
8-5-5 of this chapter shall exist during the continuation of the activity.
(Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-7: PRIOR APPLICATION:
If a prior permit application shall have been made for an activity proposed to
be held at the same time or place, the city clerk may refuse approval of the
later application. In case of such refusal, he or she shall forthwith send the
applicant a written notice that he may apply for an alternative time and place.
(Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-8: NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OF DENIAL:
The city clerk shall act upon the permit application within three (3) days of
the filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the application, he or she shall
mail to the applicant within that three (3) day period notice of the denial and
the reason for it. (Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-9: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
The applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit to the
common council. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the city clerk within
two (2) days after receipt of the notice of the denial. The common council
shall act upon the appeal at its next meeting following receipt of the notice
of appeal. (Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-10: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
Conditions to the issuance of any permit shall be set forth in the permit.
(Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-11: DUTY OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all the terms and conditions of
a said permit and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   B.   The written permit obtained pursuant to this chapter shall be carried
by the person heading or leading the activity for which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The city clerk may revoke any permit issued hereunder upon the failure of the
permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of said permit of the
activity, because of the manner in which it is being conducted, or for any
other reason, is jeopardizing those elements of public safety or welfare set
forth above. (Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
8-5-13: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING A MEETING, ASSEMBLY OR PARADE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to unreasonably obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or public meeting or assembly or with any person,
vehicle or animal participating in such parade, meeting or assembly for which a
permit has been granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The marshal shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof
constituting part of the route of a parade. The marshal shall post signs to
such effect and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended
any vehicle in violation thereof. (Ord. 13-1996, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 6
CATV FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-6-1: Short Title
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Grant Of Authority
8-6-4: Franchise Term
8-6-5: Condition On Street Occupancy
8-6-6: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
8-6-7: Company Liability; Indemnification
8-6-8: Maintenance And Service Complaint Procedures
8-6-9: Subscriber Rates
8-6-10: Preferential Or Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
8-6-11: Franchise Fee Payments
8-6-12: Acceptance Of Franchise
8-6-13: Publication Costs
8-6-14: Separability
8-6-15: Ordinance Repealed
8-6-16: Enactment
8-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not consistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
BASIC CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE: That tier of cable television service offered
by company to all residential subscribers which contain all local television
broadcast signals carried by the cable television system.
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, as amended, 47 USC and
521 et seq.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A facility consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that
is designed to provide cable television service to multiple subscribers within
a community, not including a facility or combination of facilities that serves
only to retransmit the television signals of one or more television broadcast
stations; or a facility or combination of facilities that serves only
subscribers in one or more multiple unit dwellings under common ownership,
control or management, unless such facility or facilities use any public right
of way or public utility easement.
COMPANY: Robin Cable Systems, L.P.; California limited partnership doing
business as Desert Cable Vision.
COMPLAINT OFFICER: The person designated by the council to implement the
complaint procedure herein provided.
COUNCIL: The Tombstone city council.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
GROSS REVENUES: The following types of revenues received by company directly
from the operations of a cable television system in Tombstone: regular
subscriber service fees, per channel pay services, leased channel revenues,
converter and remote control rental revenues.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-
1992)
8-6-3: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Having determined as part of a full public proceeding that the company's legal,
character, financial, technical and other qualifications are adequate, the city
hereby grants unto the company the right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate and maintain within the boundaries of the city, to the extent permitted
by law, all component parts and facilities necessary and proper for the
operation of a cable television system within the jurisdiction of the city. It
shall be unlawful for any telephone, telegraph or power company or any other
public utility company or person to lease or otherwise make available to any
person, any poles, lines, facilities, equipment, or other property for use in
connection with the operation of a cable television system or the provision of
cable television service, unless such other person holds a valid franchise
granted pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance.
   A.   The authority granted to the company pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter is not and shall not be deemed to be an exclusive right or permission.
The city expressly reserves the right to grant one or more nonexclusive
franchises to operate a cable television system to other persons for the entire
franchise area at any time under the same substantive terms and conditions as
apply to the existing company. No such additional franchise granted by the city
shall in any way affect the obligations of any other company.
   B.   If the city grants an additional franchise under this ordinance which
contains terms deemed more favorable by any existing company, said existing
company may elect to incorporate said terms or provisions into the existing
franchise upon notice to the city. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-
1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-4: FRANCHISE TERMS:
   A.   This grant shall be for a period of fifteen (15) years from the
effective date of this ordinance with option to renew the same after a full
public proceeding affording due process, for an additional ten (10) year
period.
   B.   Upon completion of the term of any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter, the procedures for franchise renewals as established by the cable act
will apply. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-5: CONDITION ON STREET OCCUPANCY:
   A.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the company within the city shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public ways, and
places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the aid streets, alleys, or
other public ways and places. The company shall obtain any required permits
prior to construction.
   B.   In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other
surfacing, the company shall at its expense and in a manner approved by the
city replace and restore the same in as good condition as before said work was
commenced. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-6: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The company shall, at all times during the life of this franchise be subject to
all lawful exercise of the police power by the city. Additionally, any
modifications of the provision of section 76.600 et seq., of the FCC's rules
relating to technical specifications of cable systems shall be incorporated
into this ordinance within one year of adoption of the modifications, or at the
time of franchise renewal, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-
81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-7: COMPANY LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION:
The company shall save the city harmless from all loss sustained on account of
any suit, judgment execution, claim or demand whatsoever, resulting from the
operations and maintenance of its system in the city. The city shall notify the
company within ten (10) days after the presentation of any claim or demand,
either by suit or otherwise, made against the city on account of any damages or
losses as aforesaid resulting from the operations of the company. Thirty (30)
days from the enactment date of this ordinance, the company shall furnish
satisfactory evidence in writing that it has in force public liability
insurance of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for any one
person. One million dollars ($1,000,000,00) for any one accident and property
damage insurance of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) duly
issued by an insurance company or insurance companies authorized to do business
in this state. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-8: MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Throughout the term of its franchise, the company shall maintain all
parts of the system in good working condition;
   B.   The city and the company shall adopt a cooperative, coordinated program
for the resolution of subscriber complaints. The company shall maintain a local
business office or agent to provide adequate and prompt service to all
subscribers. The city shall appoint a complaint officer to be directly
responsible for assuring that all complaints have been satisfactorily resolved.
The specific procedures for reporting service problems and responsibilities of
the company and the city shall be as follows:
The company:
      1.   Upon finding cable service problems, the subscriber shall report
same to the company by calling or visiting its local business office. The
company shall respond to all service complaints and correct malfunctions as
promptly as possible, and under normal circumstances, shall respond to such
calls within a period of time not to exceed thirty six (36) hours after notice
thereof.
      2.   The company shall keep a record in its office of every complaint
received and a memorandum of same indicating the manner of disposition thereof.
Complaint records shall be kept for two (2) calendar years. Consistent with
section 631 of the cable act, the company shall make the file available to the
city, the complaint officer or any other designee of the city council for
review and inspection during normal business hours. At the time of initial
subscription, the company shall forward to its new subscribers a complaint
form; this form shall set forth the information necessary for the subscriber to
register his complaint, and the form shall also state that any complaint not
properly resolved may be registered with the complaint officer.
The city:
      1.   The complaint officer shall conduct investigations of unresolved
complaints as he deems necessary to effectuate resolution. Furthermore, he
shall maintain copies of same for a period of two (2) calendar years. Whenever
the complaint officer believes the company is not providing proper service, the
complaint officer shall bring this matter to the attention of the complaint
council and an appropriate conference shall be convened to effectuate
resolution. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-9: SUBSCRIBER RATES:
   A.   Company shall file with the city schedules which shall describe all
services offered, all rates and charges of any kind, and all terms and
conditions relating thereto.
   B.   Company shall have the right to pass through to its subscribers all
taxes and fees related to the provision of cable television service and company
shall have the right to itemize all such taxes and fees on the customer bills.
   C.   Company shall notify the city of any increase in rates for cable
television service thirty (30) days before said increase becomes effective. The
city council reserves the right and authority to comment at any time, whether
publicly or in private, regarding company's schedule of rates and charges.
   D.   City reserves any rights it may have under law to regulate
prospectively the rates for basic cable service charged by company. Company
may, however, without the prior approval of the city, but with notice thereof,
raise the rates for basic cable television service by no more than five percent
(5.0%) in any one calendar year. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-
1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-10: PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The company shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers or other users, or any citizen on the basis of
race, color, religion, national origin, sex or sexual orientation. The company
shall comply at all times with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws and regulations, and all executive administrative order relating to
nondiscrimination.
   B.   Company shall comply with the individual privacy provisions contained
in the cable act. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-11: FRANCHISE FEE PAYMENTS:
The company shall pay to the city an annual fee of two percent (2.0%) of its
gross subscriber revenues, payable quarterly. Such payments shall be made
within thirty (30) days after the end of each March, June, September, and
December. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-12: ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE:
If the company shall decide to exercise the rights and privileges set forth in
this ordinance, it shall file in writing its unequivocal acceptance of all of
the terms of this ordinance. Such an acceptance shall constitute an agreement
on the part of the company to comply with all of the terms, conditions, and
provisions of this ordinance. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992,
9-9-1992)
8-6-13: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The company shall assume the costs of the publication of this ordinance as such
publication is required by law and shall pay the same upon demand by the city.
(Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
8-6-14: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or portion of this ordinance, is
for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-
9-1992)
8-6-15: ORDINANCE REPEALED:
All chapters or parts of chapters in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-
9-1992)
8-6-16: ENACTMENT:
An emergency is hereby declared to exist in the city of Tombstone, requiring
the immediate adoption of this ordinance for protection of the health, and
welfare, of the citizens of the city of Tombstone in accordance with this
emergency provision. (Ord. 14-78-79; amd. Ord. 4-81-82; Ord. 3-1992, 9-9-1992)
CHAPTER 7
GRAVEL PIT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Policy
8-7-2: Permit Required
8-7-3: Inspector
8-7-4: Penalty
8-7-1: POLICY:
The city has control of a gravel pit. The mayor and common council are charged
with the efficient use and operation of that gravel pit. (Ord. 8-80-81, 5-18-
1981)
8-7-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A permit shall be required of any person or group wishing to load and/
or haul gravel from the gravel pit. This permit will be issued by the city
clerk upon payment of a five dollar ($5.00) fee for each yard of gravel to be
loaded and hauled from the gravel pit. Said permit must be issued before the
gravel is loaded or hauled.
   B.   Any person living in the city may load and/or haul gravel from the
gravel pit for their personal use at no charge. Before loading and/or hauling
said gravel, said person shall obtain a permit from the city clerk. (Ord. 8-80-
81, 5-18-1981)
8-7-3: INSPECTOR:
Inspecting authority to ensure the provisions of this chapter are complied with
is vested in the public works director. He may delegate any part of his
inspection duties to a responsible person in the public works department, city
clerk or the city marshal. (Ord. 8-80-81, 5-18-1981)
8-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply
with or resisting enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six
(6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. A separate offense shall be
deemed to be committed upon each incident during which or on which a violation
occurs. (Ord. 8-80-81, 5-18-1981)
CHAPTER 8
SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION
SECTION:
8-8-1: Grant
8-8-2: Time Span
8-8-3: Conditions
8-8-1: GRANT:
There is hereby granted to Southwest Gas Corporation, a California corporation,
its successors and assigns, the right, privilege and franchise to construct,
maintain and operate upon, over, along, across and under the present and future
streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges and other public places in the city
of Tombstone, Arizona, natural gas pipelines, together with all necessary or
desirable appurtenances (including pipes, pipelines, its plants and system,
including mains, laterals, pumps, manholes, meters, gauges, regulator stations
and related equipment, facilities and appurtenances), for the purpose of
supplying natural gas to the city of Tombstone, its successors, the inhabitants
thereof, all persons or corporations either within or beyond the limits
thereof, for all purposes. (Ord. 2011-01, 11-15-2011)
8-8-2: TIME SPAN:
This franchise to Southwest Gas Corporation shall extend for a period of twenty
five (25) years. (Ord. 2011-01, 11-15-2011)
8-8-3: CONDITIONS:
The terms of such franchise shall be in accordance with the franchise agreement
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 2011-01, 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 9
ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY
SECTION:
8-9-1: Grant
8-9-2: Time Span
8-9-3: Conditions
8-9-1: GRANT:
There is hereby granted to Arizona Public Service Company, a corporation
organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Arizona,
its successors and assigns, the right, privilege and franchise to construct,
maintain and operate upon, over, along, across and under the present and future
streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges and other public places in the city
of Tombstone, Arizona, electric power lines, together with all necessary or
desirable appurtenances (including electric power plants, substations, poles,
towers, wires, cables, transmission lines, transformers, switches and signals,
telephone and telegraph wires for its own use), for the purpose of supplying
electric energy to the city of Tombstone, its successors, the inhabitants
thereof, all persons or corporations either within or beyond the limits
thereof, for all purposes. (Ord. 2011-02, 11-15-2011)
8-9-2: TIME SPAN:
This franchise to Arizona Public Service Company shall extend for a period of
twenty five (25) years. (Ord. 2011-02, 11-15-2011)
8-9-3: CONDITIONS:
The terms of such franchise shall be in accordance with the franchise agreement
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated by
reference. (Ord. 2011-02, 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 10
HANDBILLS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Public Places
8-10-3: Placing On Vehicles
8-10-4: Signs Posted Prohibiting Distribution
8-10-5: Private Premises
8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have
the meanings given in this section:
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed
matter which:
   A.   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, or commodity; or
   B.   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
   C.   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed matter not included in the definition of a commercial
handbill as set out in this section.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purpose, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and includes
any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, spaces,
grounds, and buildings. (Ord. 12-1995, 11-20-1995)
8-10-2: PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
upon any sidewalk, street or other public placed within the city; or shall any
person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial or noncommercial handbill
in any public place; provided however, that it is not unlawful on any sidewalk,
street, or other public place within the city for any person to hand out or
distribute, without charge to a person willing to accept it, any commercial or
noncommercial handbill. (Ord. 12-1995, 11-20-1995)
8-10-3: PLACING ON VEHICLES:
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it is not unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge, a commercial or
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept
it. (Ord. 12-1995, 11-20-1995)
8-10-4: SIGNS POSTED PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION:
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do
so, or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words, "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers or
Agents", "No Advertisement" or any similar notice, indicating in any manner
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises. (Ord. 12-1995, 11-20-1995)
8-10-5: PRIVATE PREMISES:
No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon private premise which are inhabited, except by handing or
transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person
then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case
of inhabited private premise which are not posted, as provided in this
ordinance, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private
premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent
such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks,
streets, or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used
when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, or to
newspapers. (Ord. 12-1995, 11-20-1995)
CHAPTER 11
BOOTHILL GRAVEYARD AND GIFT SHOP
SECTION:
8-11-1: Operation
8-11-1: OPERATION:
The city of Tombstone owns the Boothill graveyard and gift shop property and
said site is a major tourist attraction in the city of Tombstone which provides
substantial benefit to the city if it is operated by the city for the benefit
of all residents. This property is operated by the city utilizing the
provisions of Arizona law allowing for such an enterprise to be operated by a
municipality under a separate enterprise fund. The Boothill graveyard and gift
shop cannot be sold or leased without a majority vote of the residents of the
city of Tombstone. (Ord. 2005-10, 6-21-2005)
CHAPTER 12
PUBLIC PARKS AND BUILDING FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
8-12-1: Policy
8-12-2: Fee Schedule
8-12-3: Duty Of Permittee
8-12-4: Revocation Of Permit
8-12-1: POLICY:
Applications for permits under this chapter must be filed with the city clerk
not less than five (5) days in advance of the date of the proposed activity.
Late applications may be accepted if filed sufficiently in advance of the date
of the proposed activity to enable the city clerk to determine that said
activity will meet the requirements set forth below:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the use
of city property. If the activity proposed is to be conducted for, on behalf
of, or by any organization, the name, address and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization and the authorized head of such organization
shall be stated.
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
directly in charge of and responsible for the activity.
   C.   The purpose of the activity.
   D.   The date, time, location and duration of the purposed activity.
   E.   The approximate number of persons who will participate in the activity
and any kind of equipment, vehicles and animals which will be used.
   F.   Any additional information which the marshal shall find reasonably
necessary. (Ord. 2013-02, 1-8-2013)
8-12-2: FEE SCHEDULE:
  Fee 501c3
                                                        Fee            501c3
                          Lobby rental only               75.00           
                          Lobby cleaning deposit          75.00           
                          Auditorium rental only          150.00          
                          Auditorium cleaning deposit     75.00           
                          Lobby and auditorium rental     200.00          
Schieffelin Hall          Lobby and auditorium cleaning   100.00          
                          deposit
                          Sound system with technician    35 per hour     
                          Visual equipment rental         50.00           
                          Conference room                 75.00           
                          Conference cleaning deposit     75.00           
Senior Center             Hall rental                     100.00          
                          Cleaning deposit                75.00           
                          Ball field rental               75.00           
                          Ball field electric deposit     200.00          
Medigovich Field          Concession stand rental         100.00          
                          Concession stand electrical     200.00          
                          deposit
                          Field rental                    400.00         200.00
                          Concession stand rental         100.00         50.00
                          Public works setup and tear     200.00          
Discover Tombstone Field  down
                          Field cleaning/maintenance      150.00         75.00
                          deposit
                          Tables and chairs rental        125.00         60.00
                          Vendor fee (10' x 10' space)    30.00          /CE>
Discover Tombstone Field  Vendor fee (food and beverage)  50.00           
(cont.)                   Discover tombstone tent rental  20.00           
                          Gazebo rental                   25.00           
                          Gazebo electric deposit         25.00           
Schieffelin Park          All day event                   100.00          
                          All day event electric deposit  75.00           
                          All day event cleaning deposit  75.00           
Allen Street              Permit for wedding or event     10.00 per hour  
                          Parade barricades               100.00          
Street closures           Barricades                      100.00          
Filming permit            Movie                           200.00          
                          Documentary                     100.00          
                          Boothill Graveyard-monthly      50.00           
                          event (2-hour min.)
                          Boothill Graveyard-team rental  600.00          
Paranormal investigations (4-hour min.)
                          Schieffelin Hall-monthly event  50.00           
                          (2-hour min.)
                          Schieffelin Hall-team rental    600.00          
                          (4-hour min.)
 
(Ord. 2013-02, 1-8-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 2-13-2024)
8-12-3: DUTY OF PERMITTEE:
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all terms and conditions of said permit
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. (Ord. 2013-02, 1-8-2013)
8-12-4: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The city clerk may revoke any permit issued hereunder upon failure of the
permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of said permit of the
activity, because of the manner in which it is being conducted, or for any
other reason, is jeopardizing the elements of public safety or welfare. (Ord.
2013-02, 1-8-2013)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Citation Books; Arrests
9-1-2: Police Officers
9-1-3: Written Promise To Appear
9-1-4: Illegally Parked Vehicle
9-1-5: Registered Owner Of Vehicle
9-1-6: Citation; Lawful Complaint
9-1-7: Speed Limits
9-1-8: Sound Amplification Systems
9-1-1: CITATION BOOKS; ARRESTS:
   A.   The city shall provide books to include traffic citation forms for
notifying alleged violators to appear and answer to charges of violating
traffic laws or ordinances in the police court of this city. Said books shall
include serially numbered sets of citations in quadruplicate in the form
prescribed and approved by the city marshal.
   B.   The city shall issue such books to the city marshal and city police
officers and shall maintain a record of every book so issued and shall require
receipt for the same. (Ord. 191, 2-13-1961)
9-1-2: POLICE OFFICERS:
Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take a person
before a police judge for the violation of any traffic laws, a police officer
who halts a person for such violation other than for the purpose of giving him
a warning or warning notice and does not take such person into custody under
arrest, shall take the name, address, and operator's license number of said
person, the registered number of the motor vehicle involved, and such other
pertinent information as may be necessary, and shall issue to him in writing on
a form provided by the city a traffic citation containing a notice to answer to
the charge against him in the police court of this city at a time to be
specified in said citation. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of
the alleged violator to answer as specified in the citation, shall release such
person from custody. (Ord. 191, 2-13-1961)
9-1-3: WRITTEN PROMISE TO APPEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his written promise to appear
given to an officer upon the issuance of a traffic citation regardless of the
disposition of the charge for which such citation was originally issued. (Ord.
191, 2-13-1961)
9-1-4: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE:
Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by the provisions of this code or
by state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration
number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may
identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic
citation, on a form provided by the city, for the driver to answer to the
charge against him at the time and place specified in the citation. (Ord. 191,
2-13-1961)
9-1-5: REGISTERED OWNER OF VEHICLE:
In any prosecution charging the violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred. (Ord. 191, 2-13-
1961)
9-1-6: CITATION; LAWFUL COMPLAINT:
In the event the form of citation provided herein includes information and is
sworn to as required under the general laws of this state in respect to a
complaint charging commission of the offense alleged in said citation to have
been committed, then such citation when filed with the court having
jurisdiction shall be deemed to be a lawful complaint for the purpose of
prosecution under this chapter. (Ord. 191, 2-13-1961)
9-1-7: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   The speed limits on U.S. Highway 80 through the corporate limits, which
include that portion of Fremont Street east of Sumner Street and that portion
of Sumner Street north of Fremont Street, shall be established and posted by
the Arizona highway department.
   B.   The speed limit on all other thoroughfares within the corporate limits
shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour, unless posted otherwise. (1972 Code)
9-1-8: SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS:
   A.   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system which:
      1.   Can be heard outside the vehicle from fifty (50) or more feet; or
      2.   Annoys or disturbs the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      3.   Unless the system is being operated to request assistance of an
emergency nature or to warn of a hazardous situation.
   B.   Subsection A of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   An authorized emergency vehicle;
      2.   A vehicle operated by a gas, electric, communications or water
utility company or governmental entity; or
      3.   A vehicle used for advertising in a parade or in a political or
other special event permitted by the city.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, "sound amplification system" means
any device, instrument or system, whether electrical or mechanical or utility
company or governmental entity; or otherwise, for amplifying sound or for
producing or reproducing sound, including, but not limited to, any radio,
stereo, musical instrument, phonograph, or sound or musical recorder or player.
   D.   A violation of this provision shall be punishable by fine not to exceed
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense, fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the second offense, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent
offense. (Ord. 10-1995, 10-11-1995)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING; STANDING; PARKING
SECTION:
9-2-1: Method Of Parking
9-2-2: Blocking Traffic
9-2-3: Parking Adjacent To Schools
9-2-4: Authority To Erect Signs
9-2-5: Vehicles On Sidewalks
9-2-6: Abandoned Vehicles
9-2-7: Parking Areas For The Physically Disabled
9-2-8: Exception
9-2-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the mayor and council, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall
be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to
and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-
1990)
9-2-2: BLOCKING TRAFFIC:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any motor vehicle
or other vehicle upon a street in the city in such manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than twelve feet (12') of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a person
may stop temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers or, when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of the marshal.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle or other vehicle
within an alley or entrance to a private driveway, except for the loading or
unloading of materials, and not then unless such loading or unloading can be
accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement of vehicular
traffic. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-1990)
   C.   The Landin park shall be closed to all persons and vehicles from eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. each day, to include, but
not limited to, no overnight parking of trailer, campers or other recreational
vehicles, except by prior written permission so granted by the mayor or his
designated authority.
   D.   There shall be no parking of trailers, campers or other recreational
vehicles at the Tombstone municipal airport and that the only vehicle parking
permitted at said airport shall be only for direct and connected airport use,
except by prior written permission so granted by the mayor or his designated
authority. (Ord. 02-72-73, 1973)
9-2-3: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
When signs are erected indicating "no parking" on that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-1990)
9-2-4: AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS:
The mayor and council may cause to be erected signs requiring parking at an
angle to a curb, allowing parking on the left hand curb on one-way streets,
notifying drivers that parking is prohibited and restricting parking in any way
that may be necessary. No parking restrictions shall become effective until
signs have been erected as authorize by this section.
It is unlawful for any person to stop or stand a vehicle in disobedience to
such parking restrictions. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-1990)
9-2-5: VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, whether in usable condition
or not, or for an owner to permit his/her vehicle to be parked upon any
sidewalk in the city. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-1990)
9-2-6: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle remaining parked upon any sidewalk of the city for more than three
(3) days, or any disabled vehicle remaining parked upon any street of the city
for more than seven (7) days, is declared to be an abandoned vehicle and the
marshal shall forthwith remove the same from the sidewalks or streets of the
city at the expense of the owner of such vehicle. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-1990)
9-2-7: PARKING AREAS FOR THE PHYSICALLY DISABLED:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a parking space set
aside and identified for use only by person with physical disabilities, unless
the vehicle has displayed thereon a distinguishing insignia or numbered plates
bearing the international wheelchair symbol issued pursuant to section 28-881,
Arizona Revised Statutes.
   B.   Subsection A of this section shall apply only to those parking spaces
that are identified with a standard sign as approved or designated by the mayor
and common council.
   C.   Owners of private property, by erecting on their property a standard
sign approved or designated by the mayor and common council, and identifying a
parking space or spaces for use only by persons with physical disabilities,
shall thereby constitute the city the agent of the owner and shall thereby
impliedly authorize the full enforcement of said parking restriction on said
property by the city marshal's department. (Ord. 2-1990, 2-27-1990)
9-2-8: EXCEPTION:
Notwithstanding the parking prohibitions contained in this chapter, it shall
not be unlawful for a public officer or employee acting within the scope of his
or her public duties to park temporarily in a "no parking", "restricted
parking", or loading zone, or on a public street, right of way or alley in
performance of his or her duties, during an emergency, or if necessary to
protect the health, safety or welfare of the city and its citizens and provided
that parking the vehicle under this exception does not create a safety hazard
and does not inhibit the free flow of vehicular traffic as described in section
9-2-2 of this chapter except in the case of an emergency or by order of the
marshal. (Ord. 1-2001, 3-5-2001)
CHAPTER 3
TRUCK-TRACTORS AND SEMITRAILERS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Parking In Residential Zones
9-3-2: Idling Restrictions
9-3-3: Unattended Semitrailer
9-3-4: Penalty
9-3-1: PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
No combination truck-tractor/semitrailer vehicle, or separate semitrailer in
excess of fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds' licensed gross weight shall be
parked or permitted to remain upon the streets or avenues within an R-1 single
residence zone, MH-1 mobile home zone, R-2 multiple residence zone, R-
3 multiple residence zone, or R-4 multiple residential zone as designated on
the zoning map of the city, provided that the stopping of said trucks for the
purpose of loading or unloading for such time as is necessary therefor will not
be considered a violation of this section. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-14-2015)
9-3-2: IDLING RESTRICTIONS:
No truck-tractors shall be parked on any public street with the motor running
for a consecutive period of more than one hour or in any residential area as
set forth in section
9-3-1 of this chapter with the motor running for a consecutive period of more
than fifteen (15) minutes between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-14-2015)
9-3-3: UNATTENDED SEMITRAILER:
No semitrailer which is not attached to a truck-tractor designed to pull it
shall be parked on any public street or in any R-1, R-2, R-3, or R-4 multiple
residential district or in an MH-1 mobile home district. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-14-
2015)
9-3-4: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be cited in accordance with the provisions
contained in
chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2015-04, 7-14-2015)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: General Purpose; Adoption Of Land Use Plan And Zoning Ordinance
10-1-3: Application Of Plan And Ordinance
10-1-4: Regulations
10-1-5: Nonconforming Uses Exempted
10-1-6: Nonconforming Uses
10-1-7: Definitions
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This ordinance may be referred to as THE TOMBSTONE ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 168)
10-1-2: GENERAL PURPOSE; ADOPTION OF LAND USE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE:
For the promotion and protection of the public health, peace, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare and in order to secure for the citizens of
Tombstone, Arizona, the social and economic advantages of an orderly efficient
use of land, and as a part of the master plan for said city, there is hereby
adopted and established an official land use plan and zoning ordinance for
Tombstone, Arizona, and rules, regulations and plans by which the future growth
and development of said city may be directed in accordance with said plan and
ordinance, as provided in the Arizona code of 1939. (Ord. 168)
10-1-3: APPLICATION OF PLAN AND ORDINANCE:
   A.   All terms used herein shall be interpreted according to their common,
plain, natural and accepted usage when not otherwise defined.
   B.   In any dispute concerning the application of any provision of this
ordinance, that solution shall be favored which is most reasonable with regard
to the general purpose of this ordinance and the established and accepted
principles of American planning and zoning law. (Ord. 168)
10-1-4: REGULATIONS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   All property shall be hereby governed according to the type of zone in
which the same is located, as shown on the zoning maps adopted and made a part
hereof, and shall be subject to the regulations hereinafter set forth for such
zones, the regulations applying to specific uses and the general regulations
hereinafter set forth.
   B.   No building shall be erected and no existing building shall be moved,
altered, added to or enlarged nor shall any land, building or premises be used,
designed or intended to be used for any purpose or in any manner other than as
permitted herein for the zone in which such land, building or premises is
located.
   C.   No yard or other open space provided about any building for the purpose
of complying with the regulations of this ordinance or amendments thereto shall
be considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building or
structure.
   D.   No structure shall be erected in a required front yard, side yard or
rear yard, except as specifically permitted herein.
   E.   The express renumeration and authorization herein of a particular class
of building, structure, premises or use in a zone shall be deemed a prohibition
of such building, structure, premises or use in all other zones of more
restrictive classification. (Ord. 168)
10-1-5: NONCONFORMING USES EXEMPTED:
Any building, structure or use lawfully existing at the time of enactment of
this ordinance may be continued, even though such building, structure or use
does not conform with the provisions of this ordinance for the zone in which it
is located. Similarly, whenever a zone shall be changed hereafter, the then
existing lawful use may be continued. (Ord. 168)
10-1-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Except when authorized by the board of adjustment and appeals, as
provided in title 2, chapter 4 of this code, no building or premises containing
a nonconforming use shall hereafter be extended unless such extension shall
conform with the provisions of this ordinance for the zone in which it is
located; provided, however, that a nonconforming use may be extended throughout
those parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such
use prior to the time of enactment of this ordinance, if no structural
alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are made therein.
   B.   Any nonconforming building or structure which has been or may be
damaged by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot or act of God, may be
reconstructed and used as before, if it be done within twelve (12) months of
such calamity and if the area restored does not exceed the square foot area as
it existed at the time of such calamity.
   C.   No building, structure or premises where a nonconforming use has been
or may be discontinued for more than six (6) months or has been or may be
changed to a use permitted in the zone in which it is located, shall again be
devoted to a nonconforming use. (Ord. 168)
10-1-7: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings:
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or a structure subordinate to the principal
use of building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the
use of the principal building, provided any such structure is built with or
after the construction of the principal buildings.
ALLEY: A way dedicated to the public which affords a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOME (Also A HOST HOME): A private residence or other
structure on a homeowner's property (such as a guest home or cabin) that is
used to accommodate paying guests overnight. Breakfast (either continental or
full) is provided.
BUILDABLE AREA: The net portion of the lot remaining after deducting all
required yards from the gross area of a lot or building site.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average finished grade at the
building line, to the average height of the top of the cornice of flat roofs,
or roofline, or to the middle height of the highest gable or dormer in a
pitched or hipped roof, or, if there are no gables or dormers, to the middle
height of such pitched or hipped roof.
BULK STATION: A place where liquefied petroleum gas, crude petroleum, gasoline,
naphtha, benzene, benzol, kerosene, or any other liquid, except such as will
stand a test of one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F), closed cupped
tester, are stored in wholesale quantities where the aggregate capacity of all
storage tanks is more than ten thousand (10,000) gallons.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is used, intended or designed
to be occupied for living purposes.
DWELLING UNITS: A room or suite of two (2) or more rooms that is designed for,
or is occupied by, one family doing its own cooking therein and having only one
kitchen.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals customarily living together as a single
housekeeping unit and using common cooking facilities.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or portion of the main building,
designed or used for the shelter or storage of self-propelled vehicles owned or
operated by the occupants of the main building.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Premises, except those herein defined as a private garage, used
for the storage or care of self-propelled vehicles, or where such vehicles are
equipped for operation, or repair, or kept for hire or sole.
HOME OCCUPATION: An activity carried on by the occupant of a dwelling as a
secondary use, including professional and semiprofessional offices, when
conducted and entered from within the dwelling, in connection with which there
is no public display of stock in trade upon the premises, not more than one
nonresident of the premises is employed and not more than one-fourth (1/4) of
the floor area of one story of the main dwelling, or a detached home workshop
of not more than two hundred (200) square feet in area is used for such home
occupation; and provided that the residential character of the dwelling is not
changed by said use and that such occupation does not cause any sustained or
unpleasant or unusual noises or vibrations, or noxious fumes or odors, or cause
any parking or traffic congestion in the immediate neighborhood.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land, abutting on a street, whose area, in addition
to the parts thereof occupied or which may hereafter be occupied by a building
and its accessory buildings, is sufficient to provide the yards and courts
required under this ordinance.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the junction of two (2) or more intersecting
streets having an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°), with a boundary line thereof bordering on two (2) of the streets. The
point of intersection of the street lot lines is the corner.
LOT, DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot which is not a corner lot.
LOT, KEY: A lot abutting along the entire length of at least one of its side
lot lines, either directly or across an alley, the rear lot line of any other
lot; or a lot situated between two (2) such key lots.
LOT LINE: A property line abounding a lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. The rear lot line of an irregular triangular or gore lot shall, for the
purpose of this ordinance, be a line entirely within the lot at least ten feet
(10') long and parallel to and most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot line. A side
lot line separating a lot from a street is a street side lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from another lot is an interior side lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angles to the
depth.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which, in
the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body
feet or more in length, or when erected on the site, is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
cooling, and electrical systems contained therein.
MINING: Includes the land accessory or incidental to the digging, excavating or
otherwise procuring minerals and ores found in their natural state, but does
not include permanent residential housing.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable dwelling unit over forty feet (40') in
length or over eight feet (8') wide, constructed to be towed on its own chassis
and designed so as to be installed with or without a permanent foundation for
human occupancy as a residence which may include one or more components that
can be retracted for towing purposes and subsequently expanded for additional
capacity, or two (2) or more units separately towable but designed to be joined
into one integral unit, as well as a portable dwelling composed of a single
unit.
MODULAR HOME: A structure fabricated in a factory and delivered to the building
site in one or more sections. The structure shall be designed only for
installation on a site built foundation and not designed to move once installed
on the foundation. The unit shall include all the plumbing, heating, cooling,
and electrical systems of the building.
MOTOR HOME: A recreation vehicle consisting of a coach body and a truck chassis
constructed so that the driver's area is enclosed within the coach body and is
similar in appearance to a bus or van. Accommodations may be minimal or
elaborate as in a travel trailer.
PROFESSIONAL: Includes accountants, architects, chiropodists, chiropractors,
dentists, engineers, lawyers, naturopaths, osteopaths, physicians, surgeons,
surveyors, veterinarians.
SEMIPROFESSIONAL: Includes insurance brokers, photographic studios, public
stenographers, real estate brokers, stock brokers, and other persons who
operate or conduct offices which do not require the stocking of goods for sale
at wholesale or retail; does not include barbers, beauty operators,
cosmetologists, embalmers or morticians.
STREET: A way dedicated to the public which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
TOURIST COURT (Includes MOTEL, AUTO COURT AND AUTOMOBILE COURT): A building or
group of buildings on the some lot, whether detached or in connected rows,
containing individual sleeping or dwelling units and designed for or occupied
by automobile travelers or other transient tenants.
TRAILER PARK: Any parcel of land used or intended for use as a location or
accommodation for two (2) or more mobile homes or recreation vehicles for the
purpose of storage or occupancy whether or not a fee is charged for such use.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A recreation vehicle consisting of a coach body constructed on
a trailer chassis and having a width not greater than eight feet (8') nor a
length in excess of thirty six feet (36'). Accommodations may be minimal
requiring separate sanitary facilities on the vehicle and may contain all the
equipment of a modern home.
TRUCK CAMPER: A recreation vehicle consisting of a coach body mounted on a
truck chassis complete with cab. The coach body may be attached directly to the
truck chassis or it may rest within the truck cargo area and be attached so as
to permit easy removal. Accommodations may be minimal or elaborate as in travel
trailers.
YARD: An open and unoccupied space on a building site and, except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance, open and unobstructed from the ground upward.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending the full width of the building site between the
rear lot line and the nearest rear line of the main building or the nearest
line of any enclosed or covered porch.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the building site between
the rear lot line and the nearest rear line of the main building or the nearest
line of any enclosed or covered porch. Where a rear yard abuts a street it
shall meet front yard requirements.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
side lot line and the nearest line of the main building. (Ord. 168; amd. Ord.
02-69-70, 4-30-1970; Ord. 6-1988, 12-19-1988; Ord. 1-1996, 3-25-1996)
CHAPTER 2
ZONES; MAP
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zones
10-2-2: Maps
10-2-3: Determination Of Boundaries
10-2-1: ZONES:
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following types of zones are hereby
established:
   R-1 single residence zone
   MH-1 mobile home zone
   R-2 multiple residence zone
   R-3 multiple residence zone
   R-4 multiple residential zone
   B-1 local business zone
   B-2 general business zone
   I-1 light industry and warehouse zone
   I-2 industrial and mining zone
   HB-3 historic preservation district zone
   Western urban ranch zone
(Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970; Ord. 2-1988, 8-15-1988; Ord. 2008-07,
5-13-2008; Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-2-2: MAPS:
The boundaries of zones are hereby established as shown on the map entitled
"Tombstone zoning map", and the same may be hereafter amended and supplemented.
(Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-2-3: DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists, the boundary of any zone shall be determined as
follows:
   A.   Where a boundary is indicated as approximately following a street or
alley line or the centerline thereof, or a lot line, such line shall be
construed to be such boundary.
   B.   Where a boundary divides a lot, the location of such boundary, unless
indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on
the zoning map.
   C.   Where a public street, alley or railroad or other right of way is
vacated or abandoned, the zone applied to abutting property shall thereafter be
deemed to extend to the centerline of such vacated or abandoned right of way.
   D.   Questions concerning the exact location of boundaries not covered above
shall be determined by the board of adjustment and appeals. (Ord. 168; amd.
Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
CHAPTER 3
R-1 SINGLE RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Uses
10-3-2: Building Height
10-3-3: Lot Area
10-3-4: Lot Width
10-3-5: Front Yard
10-3-6: Total Lot Area
10-3-7: Main Buildings
10-3-8: Detached Accessory Buildings
10-3-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Accessory building or use.
      Agriculture and horticulture, flower and vegetable gardening, nursery or
greenhouse used only for propagation and culture and not for retail sale.
      Church, providing the minimum off street parking requirements, as set
forth in
chapter 13 of this title are met.
      Public park, public or parochial school.
      Small animals, the keeping of, such as rabbits, chickens, but not
cockerels, and not for commercial purposes, provided not more than twenty four
(24) such animals per seven thousand (7,000) square feet of lot area are kept.
      A trailer for not more than ninety (90) days during construction of a
residence on the same premises, which period may be extended for an additional
period of ninety (90) days upon application to the board of adjustment and
appeals.
      Transitional use where side of lot abuts a business or industrial zone:
Any residential use permitted in the R-2 zone, including R-2 area and yard
requirements; provided such use extends not more than one hundred twenty feet
(120') or two (2) lots, which is the lesser, from the zone boundary.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional use permit of the board of
adjustment and appeals:
      Club, college, community service agency, governmental structure, library
museum, playground or athletic field, private school.
      Community storage garage.
      Temporary real estate office. (Ord. 168)
10-3-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 168)
10-3-3: LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area: Seven thousand (7,000) square feet. (Ord. 168)
10-3-4: LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width: Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 168)
10-3-5: FRONT YARD:
Minimum front yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 168)
10-3-6: TOTAL LOT AREA:
Maximum coverage of lot for all buildings: Forty percent (40%) of total lot
area. (Ord. 168)
10-3-7: MAIN BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum side yard: Ten feet (10') each.
   B.   Minimum rear yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 168)
10-3-8: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum distance to side lot lines: Four feet (4').
   B.   Minimum distance to rear lot line: Four feet (4') if building is not
used for poultry or animals; fifteen feet (15') if building is used for poultry
or animals. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 4
MH-1 MOBILE HOME ZONE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Uses
10-4-3: Lot Size
10-4-4: Lot Width
10-4-5: Building Height
10-4-6: Total Lot Area
10-4-7: Front Yard
10-4-8: Side Yards
10-4-9: Rear Yard
10-4-10: Subdivision Requirements
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
This zone comprises areas developed or to be developed for placement and
occupancy of mobile homes only for residential purposes on individually owned
lots and for mobile homesite subdivisions. Regulations are designed to
stabilize and protect the residential character of the zone, to promote and
encourage a suitable environment for urban living, to prohibit all incompatible
activities, and to encourage development, providing open spaces comparable to
those of low density residential areas. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-2: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied at the time of the
zoning of a mobile homesite zone or at the time of petition for such zoning.
      Certain uses permitted in section
10-3-1 of this title with prior approval by the city council.
      One mobile home per homesite or lot to be used exclusively for one family
residence.
      Only animals of the household pet varieties may be kept and these may not
be kept for business purposes. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-3: LOT SIZE:
Minimum lot size:
   A.   Mobile homesite: Within a subdivision seven thousand (7,000) square
feet.
   B.   Mobile homesite subdivision: Five (5) acres. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-4: LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width:
   A.   Mobile homesite: Sixty feet (60').
   B.   Mobile homesite subdivision: None. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or twenty four feet (24'); accessory
buildings not more than fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-6: TOTAL LOT AREA:
Maximum coverage of lot for all buildings: Forty percent (40%) of total lot.
(Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-7: FRONT YARD:
Minimum front yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-8: SIDE YARDS:
Minimum side yards:
   A.   Main buildings: Ten feet (10') to side lot lines.
   B.   Accessory buildings: Four feet (4') to side lot lines. (Ord. 02-69-70,
4-30-1970)
10-4-9: REAR YARD:
Minimum rear yard:
   A.   Main buildings: Fifteen feet (15') except that when the rear lot line
abuts on an easement the distance may be reduced to ten feet (10').
   B.   Accessory buildings: Four feet (4') except that when the rear lot line
abuts on an easement the accessory buildings may abut upon but not intrude in
the easement. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-4-10: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile homesite subdivision requirements:
   A.   Front Streets: Streets upon which front lot lines abut shall be not
less than sixty feet (60') wide, and surfaced. Surfaced roadways shall be not
less than twenty six feet (26') in width.
   B.   Cross Streets: Streets which intersect the front streets shall be
constructed in the same manner as front streets except that the street and
roadway width may be ten feet (10') less. The minimum distance between cross
streets shall be three hundred sixty feet (360') or six (6) lot widths,
whichever is greater. The requirement for cross streets may not apply in some
cases as when a front street forms a cul-de-sac, curves back upon itself, or
when the street and lot layout is such that no useful purpose would be served.
   C.   Easement: When any two (2) front streets are generally parallel and are
separated by lots oriented back to back, and in other instances where it is
deemed feasible, an easement of twenty foot (20') width shall be provided so
that the rear lot lines will abut on the easement in order to provide a site
for service lines, allow passage of fire trucks or other emergency equipment,
and to permit removal of garbage and other refuse from the rear yards.
   D.   Sidewalks: Allowance will be made for sidewalks at least four feet (4')
wide between the roadway curbs and lot lines but not less than four feet (4')
from the curbs. The space between the sidewalks and curbs is intended to serve
as an optional site for service lines and/or a planting strip.
   E.   Water Supply: A water trunk line of six inch (6") minimum diameter
shall be laid throughout the subdivision and to the nearest or designated point
for connection to the city water system. The main trunk line shall not be less
than three feet (3') below the finished grade level. The developer of the
subdivision shall have the option of installing the main water trunk line in
the rear easement or adjacent to the roadway curb but in either case a one inch
(1") minimum supply line shall be provided to the property line of each lot.
The total water system must be installed under the supervision of the designee
of city council.
   F.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants six inch (6") minimum capacity of an
approved type shall be installed at such locations that no area of the
subdivision will be more distant than three hundred feet (300') from a hydrant.
One valve will be required at each hydrant installation between the tee and the
hydrant.
   G.   Electrical And Telephone Lines: Electric power and telephone lines may
be installed in the easement, underground or overhead or underground adjacent
to the roadway curbs.
   H.   Street Lighting: Provisions shall be made for area lighting by the
installation of light standards not more than three hundred feet (300') apart.
Standards installed on the front streets shall be not less than twenty feet
(20') nor more than thirty feet (30') in height and of a type specified or
approved by the common council or a person delegated to act for them.
   I.   City Responsibility: The city is responsible within the limits of its
water extension policy, only for the main line water extension to the near
limit of the subdivision, the fire hydrant installation, and the domestic water
service through the meter. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
CHAPTER 5
R-2 MULTIPLE RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Uses
10-5-2: Building Height
10-5-3: Lot Area
10-5-4: Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit
10-5-5: Lot Width
10-5-6: Front Yard
10-5-7: Total Lot Area
10-5-8: Main Buildings
10-5-9: Detached Accessory Buildings
10-5-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Any use permitted in the R-1 zone.
      Duplex dwelling.
      Multiple dwelling for any number of families.
      Transitional use where side of lot abuts a business or industrial zone:
Any residential use permitted in the R-3 zone including R-3 area and yard
requirements, provided such use extends not more than one hundred twenty feet
(120') or two (2) lots, whichever is the lesser, from the zone boundary.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional use permit of the board of
adjustment and appeals:
      Any use subject to conditional permit in the R-1 zone.
      Bed and breakfast for up to two (2) units provided an off street parking
space is provided for each unit.
      Hospital, clinic, dispensary or sanatorium. (Ord. 6-1988, 12-19-1988)
10-5-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 168)
10-5-3: LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet. (Ord. 168)
10-5-4: LOT AREA PER DWELLING UNIT:
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: Three thousand (3,000) square feet. (Ord.
168)
10-5-5: LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width: Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 168)
10-5-6: FRONT YARD:
Minimum front yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 168)
10-5-7: TOTAL LOT AREA:
Minimum coverage for all buildings: Forty five percent (45%) of total lot area.
(Ord. 168)
10-5-8: MAIN BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum side yard: Eight feet (8') each.
   B.   Minimum rear yards: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 168)
10-5-9: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum distance to side of lot: Four feet (4').
   B.   Minimum distance to rear lot line: Four feet (4') if building is not
used for poultry or animals; fifteen feet (15') if building is used for poultry
or animals. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 6
R-3 MULTIPLE RESIDENCE ZONE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Uses
10-6-2: Building Height
10-6-3: Lot Area
10-6-4: Lot Width
10-6-5: Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit
10-6-6: Front Yard
10-6-7: Total Lot Area
10-6-8: Main Buildings
10-6-9: Detached Accessory Buildings
10-6-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Any use permitted in the R-1 and R-2 zones.
      Boarding or rooming house for any number of guests, but not primarily for
transients.
      Multiple dwelling for any number of families.
      Transitional use where side of lot abuts a business or industrial zone:
Any residential use permitted in the R-4 zone including R-4 area and yard
requirements, provided such use extends not more than one hundred twenty feet
(120') or two (2) lots, whichever is the lesser, from the zone boundary.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional permit of the board of
adjustment and appeals:
      Any use subject to conditional permit in the R-1 and R-2 zones.
      Bed and breakfast for up to four (4) units provided an off street parking
space is provided for each unit. (Ord. 6-1988, 12-19-1988)
10-6-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 168)
10-6-3: LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet. (Ord. 168)
10-6-4: LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width: Forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 168)
10-6-5: LOT AREA PER DWELLING UNIT:
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: Two thousand (2,000) square feet. (Ord.
168)
10-6-6: FRONT YARD:
Minimum front yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 168)
10-6-7: TOTAL LOT AREA:
Maximum coverage for all buildings: Fifty percent (50%) of total lot area.
(Ord. 168)
10-6-8: MAIN BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum side yards: Seven feet (7').
   B.   Minimum rear yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 168)
10-6-9: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum distance to side lot lines: Four feet (4').
   B.   Minimum distance to rear lot line: Four feet (4') if building is not
used for poultry or animals; fourteen feet (14') if building is used for
poultry or animals. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 7
R-4 MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Uses
10-7-2: Building Height
10-7-3: Lot Area
10-7-4: Lot Width
10-7-5: Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit
10-7-6: Front Yard
10-7-7: Total Lot Area
10-7-8: Main Buildings
10-7-9: Detached Accessory Buildings
10-7-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Any use permitted in R-1, R-2 and R-3 zones.
      Private club or lodge (nonprofit).
      Professional or semiprofessional office.
      Tourist court or hotel, together with the following accessory uses
located on the premises and which have exterior entrance closer than one
hundred feet (100') to a public street:
      Beverage services
      Personal services
      Restaurants
      Retail shops
      Trailer court on a state or federal highway, in accordance with chapter
12, "Trailer Park Regulations", of this title.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional use permit of the board of
adjustment or appeals:
      Any use subject to conditional permit in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 zones.
      Bed and breakfast for up to six (6) units, provided an off street parking
space is provided for each unit.
      Trailer park or court not on a state or federal highway, in accordance
with
chapter 12, "Trailer Park Regulations", of this title. (Ord. 6-1988, 12-19-
1988)
10-7-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 168)
10-7-3: LOT AREA:
Minimum lot area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet. (Ord. 168)
10-7-4: LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width: Forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 168)
10-7-5: LOT AREA PER DWELLING UNIT:
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: One thousand (1,000) square feet. (Ord.
168)
10-7-6: FRONT YARD:
Minimum front yard: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 168)
10-7-7: TOTAL LOT AREA:
Maximum coverage for all buildings: Fifty percent (50%) of total lot area.
(Ord. 168)
10-7-8: MAIN BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum side yards: Six feet (6') each.
   B.   Minimum rear yard: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 168)
10-7-9: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Minimum distance to side lot lines: Four feet (4').
   B.   Minimum distance to rear lot line: Four feet (4') if building is not
used for poultry or animals; fifteen feet (15') if building is used for poultry
or animals. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 8
B-1 LOCAL BUSINESS ZONE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Uses
10-8-2: Building Height
10-8-3: Front Yard
10-8-4: Side Yards
10-8-5: Rear Yard
10-8-6: Detached Accessory Buildings
10-8-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
Accessory building or use (not involving open storage), when located on the
some building site;
The following uses which in the B-1 zone shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building unless otherwise specified and any use operating
as a store, shop or business shall be a retail establishment and all products
produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the premises:
Antique store.
Apparel store.
Art gallery or store.
Art needlework or hand weaving establishment.
Auto parking lot (within or without a building) subject to the provisions of
chapter 13 of this title.
Bakery.
Bank, safe depository or trust company.
Barber or beauty shop.
Bed and breakfast provided an off street parking space is provided for each
unit.
Bicycle shop (no sales or servicing of motor scooters or motorcycles).
Boarding house.
Book, newspaper, magazine, stationary, art or drawing supply store.
Catering service.
Church.
Cigar store.
Cleaning, dyeing, laundry, collection agency.
Clinic.
Club or lodge (nonprofit).
Community service agency.
Confectionery store.
Custom dressmaking, millinery, hemstitching or pleating.
Custom weaving or mending.
Day nursery or childcare center.
Dealer in coins, stamps or similar collector's items.
Delicatessen store.
Dental or medical laboratory.
Department store, variety store.
Drugstore.
Dry goods or notions store.
Duplex dwellings.
Dwelling group.
Electrical appliance store.
Florist shop.
Frozen food locker.
Furniture or house furnishing store.
Garage for public storage.
Gasoline service station (incidental repairing only) subject to the provisions
of chapter 13 of this title.
Gift, curio, novelty, toy or hobby shop.
Governmental structure.
Grocery, fruit or vegetable store.
Hardware store.
Hotel.
Ice cream store.
Ice station for package sales only.
Interior decorators.
Jewelry store or jewelry and watch repair.
Laundry, hand or self-service only.
Leather goods store.
Library, rental or public.
Liquor store for packaged sales only.
Meat, fish or dressed poultry market, provided no live poultry are kept on
premises.
Messenger office.
Motel.
Multigraphing, mimeographing, duplicating, addressographing.
Multiple dwellings.
Museum.
Music, phonograph or radio store.
Nursery, flower, plant or tree (within a building or enclosure).
Office: business, professional or semiprofessional.
Photograph studio or photographic supply store.
Postal station.
Pressing establishment.
Refreshment stand.
Religious rescue mission or temporary revival.
Restaurant, café, lunchroom, tea room (provided no dancing is allowed and no
alcoholic beverages sold except beer and wine).
Rooming house.
School, barber or beauty culture.
School, business.
School, dramatic.
School, handicraft, painting or sculpture.
Shoe store or shoe repair shop.
Single dwellings.
Sporting goods, hunting and fishing equipment store.
Station, bus or stage.
Tailor shop.
Taxicab stand.
Taxidermist.
Theater, except drive-in or outdoor theater.
Tourist court.
Water, telephone or telegraph distribution installation or electrical receiving
or distribution station.
Other similar enterprise or business of the some class, which in the opinion of
the mayor and council, as evidenced by resolution of record, is not more
obnoxious or detrimental to the welfare of the particular community than the
enterprises or businesses above enumerated.
Single, duplex or multiple dwellings, dwelling group, boarding or rooming
house, tourist court;
Trailer court on a state or federal highway, in accordance with chapter 12,
"Trailer Park Regulations", of this title;
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional use permit of the board of
adjustment and appeals:
Trailer court not on a state or federal highway in accordance with chapter 12,
"Trailer Park Regulations", of this title. (Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 6-1988, 12-19-
1988; Ord. 8-1989, 9-5-1989)
10-8-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 168)
10-8-3: FRONT YARD:
Minimum front yard: Twenty feet (20') which may be used to meet off street
parking requirements, or as part of off street parking lot. (Ord. 168)
10-8-4: SIDE YARDS:
Minimum side yards: None. (Ord. 168)
10-8-5: REAR YARD:
Minimum rear yard: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 168)
10-8-6: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permitted coverage: Forty percent (40%) of the required rear yard.
   B.   Maximum building height: Twenty feet (20') within the required rear
yard.
   C.   Minimum distance to front lot line: Twenty feet (20').
   D.   Minimum distance to side lot lines: None.
   E.   Minimum distance to rear lot line: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 9
B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS ZONE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Uses
10-9-2: Building Height
10-9-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
Any use permitted in
chapter 8, "B-1 Local Business Zone", of this title.
Accessory building or use (not involving open storage), when located on the
same building site.
Advertising sign, structure or billboard subject to
chapter 14 of this title.
Amusement or recreational enterprise (within a completely enclosed structure)
including billiard or pool hall, bowling alley, dance hall, gymnasium, penny
arcade, shooting gallery, skating rink, sports arena. Amusement or recreational
enterprise (outdoor) including archery range, miniature golf or practice
driving or putting range, games of skill or science, pony riding ring, without
stables, swimming pool or commercial beach or bathhouse, tennis court.
Auction, public (no animals).
Auditorium or assembly hall.
Auto rental garage.
Auto repair, mechanical or steam washracks, battery service (no body or fender
work, painting or upholstery, except an incidental).
Bar, cocktail lounge, nightclub, and tavern.
Baths (Turkish, Swedish, steam, etc.).
Blueprinting, photostating.
Boats, storage or rental.
Burglar alarm service.
Carpenter shop.
Cigar manufacturing (custom hand rolled).
Cleaning establishment, if only two (2) clothes cleaning units of not more than
forty (40) pounds rated capacity, and using cleaning fluid which is
nonflammable and nonexplosive at temperatures below 138.5 degrees Fahrenheit.
Club: athletic, private, social, sport or recreational (operated for profit)
except sports stadium or field.
Engraving, photoengraving, lithographing.
Fair, carnival or tent show for not longer than fifteen (15) days if sufficient
parking area for patrons is provided.
Fortune telling.
Garage, public (for commercial use).
Jukebox or coin machine business (limited to assembly, repair and servicing).
Laundry, steam or wet wash.
Light manufacturing or assembling incidental to retail sales from the premises
provided that not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area
occupied by such business is used for manufacturing, processing, assembling,
treatment, installation and repair of products. Wholesaling of products
permitted by this use unless specifically prohibited, with storage space not
exceeding one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of floor area.
Locksmith, tool or cutlery sharpening, lawnmower repairing, fix it or handyman
shop.
Massage establishment, reducing salon or gymnasium.
Mattress shop for repairing only (no renovating).
Merchandise broker's display, wholesale.
Mortuary or embalming establishment or school.
Motorcycle or motor scooter repair or storage.
Newspaper office.
Oxygen equipment, rental or distribution.
Pawnshop.
Piano repairing.
Plumbing, retail custom.
Printing or publishing.
Record recording studio or sound score production (no manufacturing or
treatment of records).
Refrigeration installation or service.
Sale or rental or display of:
Airplanes or parts.
Automobiles or trailers.
Barber supplies or beautyshop equipment.
Butcher's supplies.
Clothing or accessories (wholesale).
Contractor's equipment or supplies.
Drugs or medical, dental or veterinarian's supplies (wholesale).
Farm equipment or machinery.
Feed (no wholesale).
Garage equipment.
Hardware (retail or wholesale).
Hotel equipment or supplies.
Household appliances, sewing machines, etc. (wholesale).
Machinery, commercial and industrial.
Monuments or tombstones (no wholesale).
Office equipment (safes, business machines, etc.) (wholesale).
Orthopedic appliances (trusses, wheelchairs, etc.).
Painting equipment or supplies (paint, varnish, etc.).
Pets (no boarding or hospital).
Plastic or plastic products (wholesale).
Restaurant or soda fountain equipment or supplies.
School or college (operated as a commercial enterprise) for dancing or musical
instruction; industrial or trade school teaching occupations or operations
permitted in this zone.
Secondhand goods: personal, furniture, books, magazines, automobiles, but not
secondhand auto parts.
Sheet metal or tinsmith shop.
Sign painting shop.
Single, duplex or multiple dwelling, dwelling group, boarding or rooming house,
tourist court.
Storage shed rental units.
Tents or awnings.
Trade show, industrial show or exhibition.
Trailer court in accordance with
chapter 12, "Trailer Park Regulations", of this title.
Transfer or express service.
Trunks or luggage (wholesale).
Upholsterer's supplies.
Upholstery shop.
Venetian blinds.
Wallpaper sales, paper hanging.
Window shades.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional use permit of the board of
adjustment and appeals:
Cemetery or crematory.
Drive-in theater.
Fair, carnival, circus or tent show for longer than fifteen (15) days.
Racetrack or sports stadium.
Radio or television tower or booster station.
Veterinary hospital, kennels. (Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 10-1989, 9-5-1989)
10-9-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 10
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRY AND WAREHOUSE ZONE
SECTION:
10-10-1: Uses
10-10-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Any use permitted in
chapter 9 of this title.
      One dwelling unit for a watchman or caretaker and his family.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: Other uses shall be permitted only by permit of
the board of adjustment and appeals and under such conditions as it may apply
regarding setbacks from lot lines, highways and other zones, odors, dust,
smoke, cinders, fumes, noise, building heights, vibration, refuse matter
relating to the public health, safety or general welfare.
      Medical marijuana cultivation site or an infusion food establishment.
      Medical marijuana facility. (Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
CHAPTER 11
I-2 INDUSTRIAL AND MINING ZONE
SECTION:
10-11-1: Uses
10-11-1: USES:
   A.   Permitted:
      Mining and all essential structures and operations directly connected
with mining or ore such as offices, storehouses, bank houses, transporting,
stockpiling, preparing for shipment, and railroad spurs, but not including
retail or wholesale businesses, manufacturing, permanent housing or any other
residential or commercial use except as in subsection C of this section.
      One dwelling unit for a watchman or caretaker and his family.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: Smelting, refining, milling or concentrating of
ore shall be permitted only by conditional permit of the board of adjustment
and appeals.
   C.   Other Uses: Other uses shall be permitted only by permit of the board
of adjustment and appeals, and under such conditions as it may apply regarding
setback from lot lines, highways and other zones, odors, dust, smoke, cinders,
fumes, noise, building heights, vibrations, refuse matter, or water carried
waste, available city utilities or any other matter relating to the public
health, safety or general welfare. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 12
TRAILER PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Definitions
10-12-3: Zoning
10-12-4: Permitted Uses Of Recreational Vehicle Parks
10-12-5: Park Development Standards
10-12-6: Transaction Privilege Tax
10-12-7: Storage, Parking And Use On Private Property
10-12-8: Construction Or Security Site Structures
10-12-9: Real Estate Office Structures
10-12-10: Restrictions And Limitations Of Parking
10-12-11: Enforcement
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is designed to provide for recreational vehicle and trailer park
development in areas compatible with the surrounding uses in an efficient,
orderly and lawful manner and provide rules and regulations for parking or
storing recreational vehicles and trailers on private residential property.
Recreational vehicle zones are comprised of areas developed or to be developed
for placement and occupancy of recreational vehicles or travel trailers for
short term occupancy or space rental for residential purposes on individually
owned lots and for semipermanent or permanent occupancy similar to mobile home
parks. Regulations are designed to stabilize and protect the residential
character of the zone, to promote and encourage a suitable environment for
urban living, to prohibit all incompatible activities, and to encourage
development, providing open spaces comparable to those of low density
residential areas. Recreational vehicle parks shall be assessed a transaction
privilege tax at the same rate as hotels. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit forty feet (40') or less in length
and twelve feet (12') or less in width and is less than four hundred (400)
square feet in box area. Primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or
is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. In Tombstone, a recreational vehicle
may be used for long term living quarters.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A parcel of land or space for rent which has been
designed to accommodate a recreational vehicle or travel trailer.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A recreational vehicle (not including boats) that is towed by a
car or truck. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-3: ZONING:
Recreational vehicle parks shall be zoned RV-1. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-4: PERMITTED USES OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Recreational vehicle parks shall be used for renting short term or long
term space for lodging in recreational vehicles, campers or travel trailers
with only one recreational vehicle or travel trailer permitted on each space;
   B.   A single-family residence or manufactured home may be used for the
manager's office and residence;
   C.   Recreational and social centers, and outdoor facilities;
   D.   Coin operated laundry facilities and vending machines, outdoor drying
areas, maintenance buildings and/or facilities and other structures reasonably
required for the operation of the park;
   E.   Boat and recreational vehicle storage;
   F.   Certain accessory structures;
   G.   Recreational vehicles, covered carports, patio awnings and detached
storage areas;
   H.   Any building, structure, park, or land lawfully occupied at the time of
the passing of this ordinance or zoning of a recreational vehicle park or at
the time of petition for such zoning;
   I.   One recreational vehicle or travel trailer per space or lot to be used
exclusively for one-family occupancy;
   J.   Only animals of the household pet varieties may be kept and these may
not be kept for business purposes. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-5: PARK DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards: The standards set forth in this subsection do not apply to
recreational vehicle and travel trailer parks in existence prior to January 1,
2002. However, effective January 1, 2002, any sale or transfer of a
recreational vehicle or travel trailer park shall be required to comply with
federal, state and city laws governing safety, discrimination and disability
issues. (Ord., 2001)
   B.   Recreational Vehicle Park Size: The minimum size of a recreational
vehicle park shall be two (2) acres.
   C.   Number Of Parking Spaces: There shall be no more than fifteen (15)
recreational vehicle spaces per acre of the park.
   D.   Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be one thousand nine hundred fifty
(1,950) square feet with minimum width of thirty feet (30') and a minimum depth
of sixty five feet (65').
   E.   Setbacks And Separations: One parking space shall be provided for each
recreational vehicle unit space and shall not be located within any private
drive or other accessway. Said parking shall be paved with a durable, dust free
surface, and shall be located within either fifty feet (50') of the
recreational vehicle unit space being served, or within a common parking area
located no more than three hundred feet (300') from the recreational vehicle.
No parking space shall be located within the minimum street setback as
specified herein. A minimum of one visitor.
   F.   Parking Space Requirements: Parking space shall be provided for each
five (5) recreational vehicle spaces occupied by a permanently sited unit.
Parking pads or spaces shall be so arranged to provide a minimum ten foot (10')
separation between vehicles. Parking pads or spaces which abut on park
perimeters shall be a twenty foot (20') minimum setback from said perimeter. In
such event as the unit space is oriented at an angle from the street which is
other than perpendicular, or is provided in trapezoidal fashion or other
geometric shape, the minimum interior dimensions of said unit space shall be
not less than the minimum specified herein. No part of any recreational vehicle
may extend beyond the limits of the designated unit space.
   G.   On Street Parking: No on street parking shall be permitted within any
recreational park. If provided, overflow recreational vehicle parking (dry
camps) shall be located in areas with a minimum of gravel or ABC surface for
access and parking.
   H.   Access To Parks: Access to recreational vehicle parks shall be by
internal private drives and each lot shall be accessible from an approved
private street or road. No lot shall have direct access to a public street or
way. Park streets shall be at least twenty feet (20') wide. All internal
streets must be improved to minimum city standards (except width). All street
corners shall have a minimum turn radius of twenty five feet (25').
   I.   Fences: All recreational vehicle and travel trailer parks shall be
provided with opaque screening such as fences or natural growth along the
property lines which shall have a minimum height of six feet (6') and conform
to the fencing requirements in Tombstone.
   J.   Utilities: Unless the area is not serviced by the city at the time an
application is submitted, electricity, city water, and city sewer shall be
provided to each recreational vehicle space, unless a waiver is granted by the
city. No aboveground utility lines shall be permitted, except for connections
between recreational vehicles and park model recreational vehicles and their
service outlets. All utility lines shall be privately maintained, except for
any fire line as may be required by the city fire department. The location of
all easements for public services and utilities, including purposes and any
limitations of such easements shall be illustrated on the site plan. Where
individual sewer connections are not provided at each space, sanitary stations
shall be provided for the clean and efficient disposal of waste from all
holding tanks and for the refilling of water storage tanks. Sanitary stations
shall be approved by the city and Cochise County health departments. Each unit
space except for self-contained units or units which are dependent upon the
central sanitary facility shall be provided with means of hookup to the sewer
system. Garbage containers shall be provided at each unit space or at central
collection points. The interval between garbage collections shall not exceed
one week. It shall be unlawful for refuse or wastewater to be thrown or
discharged upon the surface of the ground or disposed of by means other than
herein provided. Proper surface storm drainage shall be provided subject to
approval by the city engineer.
   K.   Water Supply: A water trunk line of six inch (6") minimum diameter
shall be laid throughout the subdivision and to the nearest or designated point
for connection to the city water system. The main trunk line shall not be less
than three feet (3') below the finished grade level. The developer of the
subdivision shall have the option of installing the main water trunk in the
rear easement or adjacent to the roadway curb but in either case a one inch
(1") minimum supply line shall be provided to the property line of each lot.
The total water system must be installed under the supervision of the designee
of the city council.
   L.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants six inch (6") minimum capacity of an
approved type shall be installed at such locations that no area of the
subdivision will be more distant than three hundred feet (300') from a hydrant.
One valve will be required at each hydrant installation between the tee and the
hydrant.
   M.   Electrical And Telephone Lines: Electric power and telephone lines may
be installed in the easement, underground or overhead or underground adjacent
to the roadway curbs.
   N.   Street Lighting: Provisions shall be made for area lighting by the
installation of light standards not more than three hundred feet (300') apart.
Standards installed on the front streets shall be not less than twenty feet
(20') nor more than thirty feet (30') in height and of a type specified or
approved by the common council or a person delegated to act for them.
   O.   Refuse Collection Areas: Refuse collection areas shall be provided and
screened from public view as approved by the department of public works.
   P.   Toilet And Bathing Facilities: The park shall provide toilet and
bathing facilities, for units which are not self-contained or which do not have
means for sewer hookup, consisting of at least one toilet, one lavatory and one
shower for each sex for each twelve (12) units or fraction thereof. Flush
toilets with an adequate water supply shall be enclosed in separate
compartments at least three feet by four feet (3' x 4'). Showers shall be
enclosed in separate compartments at least thirty two inches by thirty two
inches (32" x 32"). Lavatories shall be supplied with hot and cold water.
Floors of toilets, showers and washrooms shall be of concrete, tile or
materials impervious to water and easily cleaned and pitched to a floor drain
connected to a sewer system approved by the county and/or state health
department.
   Q.   Compliance: All parks and spaces, recreational areas, common areas and
common buildings contained within the parks shall strictly comply with the
Americans with disabilities act (ADA). All plumbing, electrical, building or
other work on or at any park within the limits of the city shall be in
compliance with the city building code. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-6: TRANSACTION PRIVILEGE TAX:
Recreational vehicle and travel trailer parks shall pay a tax in accordance
with ordinance 7-1995 per lot or space rented or leased for lodging or parking.
Such tax shall accumulate on a daily basis whether or not the lease is long
term or short term. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-7: STORAGE, PARKING AND USE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Recreational vehicles, travel trailers or boats may be stored on private
residential properties provided they meet the following requirements:
   A.   If a recreational vehicle, camper, travel trailer or boat is located or
stored outside of a garage or carport, it must be placed in the rear or side
yard within the buildable area of the lot and screened from view from abutting
properties at ground level.
   B.   Placement in other than the rear or side yard for loading and unloading
purposes may be permitted for a period not to exceed seventy two (72) hours.
   C.   No more than one each of recreational vehicles, boats, or trailers may
be stored on a lot or parcel. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
   D.   Recreational vehicles, campers or travel trailers may be parked on the
property of a private residence and occupied for a period of not more than
seventy two (72) hours provided prior consent is obtained from the property
owner or person or entity holding legal possession of the property. The marshal
may grant an extension if, in his opinion, the existence of the vehicle does
not create a public nuisance. (Ord. 75-76-01, 9-15-1975)
   E.   This section is not applicable to residents of the city of Tombstone
that were using recreational vehicles, campers or travel trailers for storage
or long term lodging for personal use prior to the enactment of this ordinance.
(Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-8: CONSTRUCTION OR SECURITY SITE STRUCTURES:
One temporary building, mobile home, or recreational vehicle used for
residential and/or security purposes, per lot or parcel, used in conjunction
with construction work only during such construction is permitted subject to
the following:
   A.   The property owner or his or her duly authorized representative shall
obtain zoning clearance and building permit authorization for construction
prior to the issuance of a temporary use permit.
   B.   The temporary building, mobile home, or recreational vehicle shall be
located on the lot or parcel on which construction is occurring; shall be
occupied and/or used only by the property owner or a duly authorized
representative; shall be located no closer than sixty feet (60') to any
property line; and shall be landscaped on any side of the structure facing a
right of way. Such landscaping may be in ground or above ground in planters.
   C.   Any temporary use permit for such temporary building, mobile home, or
recreational vehicle issued by the zoning administrator shall have the
concurrence of the city council and shall not exceed one year from the date of
such approval, but said permit may be renewed upon the property owner
submitting a request to the planning commission for the renewal of said permit
and the submittal of satisfactory evidence to the commission indicating that
the need for such temporary building, travel trailer, or mobile home continues
to exist.
   D.   Unless such temporary use permit is renewed, the mobile home shall be
removed from the property upon completion of construction or the expiration of
the previously issued temporary use permit or within ten (10) days after
expiration of the authorized building permit for the construction work,
whichever occurs first. If a recreational vehicle has been utilized for
temporary residential use during construction, it shall be removed or returned
to its accessory use pursuant to this chapter. If an accessory building has
been utilized for temporary residential use during construction, the building
after expiration of the authorized permit shall be returned to its accessory
use state. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-9: REAL ESTATE OFFICE STRUCTURES:
Any temporary use permit for a real estate office shall be subject to the
following:
   A.   Such office shall be located on the property being subdivided for sale
and its use shall be limited to the sale of these subdivision units.
   B.   Such office shall be subject to the height, yard, intensity of use, and
parking regulations for the zoning district in which it is located and shall
conform to the town's lighting code. The office shall not feature any banner or
hanging signs affixed to the building or otherwise on the site. There shall be
no outdoor sound amplification, blinking lights, or moveable marketing devices
on the site.
   C.   Any temporary use permit for such office shall be limited to one year
from the date of such approval.
   D.   Such offices shall be removed from the property being subdivided upon
expiration of the temporary use permit or when the lots in said property are
sold, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-10: RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF PARKING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, within the limits of the city, for any person to
park a mobile home, recreational vehicle, travel trailer, truck camper or motor
home except as authorized by this ordinance.
   B.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley, highway or public parking area, except overnight, subject to any other
and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and
parking regulations or provisions of this code for that street, alley or
highway.
   C.   The city clerk is authorized to issue a special use permit for parking
and using recreational vehicles, campers, and travel trailers on city property,
provided that the city council has approved the issuance of a permit. Special
use permits shall be limited to periods up to ninety six (96) hours. Vehicles
granted a special use permit shall not be used for any commercial purpose or
any unlawful purpose, but shall be used strictly for temporary lodging. (Ord.
02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-12-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Any violation of this ordinance constitutes a civil violation and shall be
enforced under the laws of the state of Arizona. The office of city marshal
shall issue civil citations for violations of this ordinance as follows:
   A.   Parking violations: Refer to title 28 of the Arizona Revised Statutes.
   B.   All other violations: One hundred dollar ($100.00) fine per violation.
(Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-13-1: Parking Space Defined
10-13-2: Parking Space Requirements
10-13-3: Development Of Parking Area
10-13-4: Filling Stations
10-13-1: PARKING SPACE DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, two hundred (200) square feet of floor or lot
area, together with adequate access to a public street, shall be deemed to be
one parking space. (Ord. 168)
10-13-2: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
Off street automobile parking space, or evidence of the availability of said
parking space, shall be provided according to the following schedule and
subject to the following conditions in any zone in which any of the following
uses shall hereafter be established:
   A.   One parking space for each family dwelling unit; such space shall be
provided on the building site on which such dwelling is located.
   B.   One parking space for each three (3) roomers which any boarding or
rooming house is intended or designed to accommodate; such space shall be
provided on the building site on which said building is located, or on a lot
immediately adjacent thereto. (Ord. 168)
   C.   One parking space for each guestroom or suite of guestrooms in a
tourist court, for each unit in a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast home, and for
each trailer space in a trailer court; such space shall be provided on the
building site of the court, hotel, motel, or bed and breakfast home. (Ord. 9-
1989, 9-5-1989)
   D.   One parking space for each eight (8) seats or pews in any church; such
space shall be not farther than three hundred feet (300') distant in a direct
line from the nearest part of said structure.
   E.   One parking space for each five (5) seats or similar accommodations in
any theater, auditorium or stadium; such space shall be located as set forth in
subsection D of this section.
   F.   For any other commercial or industrial use, parking space sufficient in
area to accommodate the patrons of such use. (Ord. 168)
10-13-3: DEVELOPMENT OF PARKING AREA:
   A.   In any business or industrial zone, where parking space is required,
the surface of such space shall be treated and maintained in a manner to
prevent dust from arising therefrom.
   B.   Any lights used to illuminate said parking space shall be so arranged
as to reflect the light away from adjoining lots in residential zones. (Ord.
168)
10-13-4: FILLING STATIONS:
No gasoline filling station, automobile repair shop, public garage or parking
lot shall have an entrance or exit for vehicles on the same side of the street
within thirty feet (30') of a residence zone, nor shall any part of a gasoline
filling station, public garage or automobile repair shop be within fifty feet
(50') of the grounds of any school, public playground, church, hospital,
sanatorium, public library or institution for dependents or for children. (Ord.
168)
CHAPTER 14
BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Tacking Cards, Bills Or Posters To Telegraph Poles, Etc.
10-14-2: Tacking To Private Buildings Or Structures
10-14-3: Defacing Or Tearing Down Bills, Posters
10-14-4: Height
10-14-5: Definitions
10-14-6: Permit; General Requirements
10-14-7: Plans And Specifications For Permit
10-14-8: Erection; Construction
10-14-9: Identification Requirements
10-14-10: General Maintenance Requirements
10-14-11: Interference With Traffic
10-14-12: Design And Construction
10-14-13: Electrical Signs
10-14-14: Area And Location Requirements
10-14-14-1: R-1, MH-1 And R-2 Residence Zones
10-14-14-2: R-3 And R-4 Residence Zones
10-14-14-3: B-1 Business Zones
10-14-14-4: B-2, I-1 And I-2 Zones
10-14-15: Exceptions
10-14-16: Outdoor Advertising Business
10-14-16-1: Defined
10-14-16-2: License Required
10-14-16-3: Bond And Insurance Requirement
10-14-16-4: Revocation Of License
10-14-17: Inspection Of Signs
10-14-18: Nonconforming Signs
10-14-19: Power And Authority Of Board Of Adjustment And Appeals
10-14-1: TACKING CARDS, BILLS OR POSTERS TO TELEGRAPH POLES, ETC.:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, paste, place or fasten upon any
pole or post used for carrying telegraph, telephone or electric light wires
upon any signpost, or tree in the City, any card, bill, poster or other written
or printed matter except such card, bill, or poster or other written or printed
matter which shall contain any official Municipal notice posted in furtherance
of governmental functions. Any card, bill, poster or other written matter
erected or placed in violation of this section may be removed by the City and
any costs involved shall be paid by the person causing such violation. (Ord.
168)
10-14-2: TACKING TO PRIVATE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, paste, place or fasten upon any
building, wall, fence, signboard or other structure in the City, any card,
bill, poster or other written or printed matter without having first obtained
permission of the owner or person in control of such building, wall, fence,
signboard or other structure so to do. (Ord. 168)
10-14-3: DEFACING OR TEARING DOWN BILLS, POSTERS:
If any person shall knowingly tear down, deface or cover up any legally posted
advertisements or bills, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
168)
10-14-4: HEIGHT:
No sign or advertising structure or any part thereof shall extend above the
maximum building height for the zone in which it is located. (Ord. 168)
10-14-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: All structures and all parts thereof which are erected
or used for advertising purposes upon which any poster, bill, bulletin,
printing, painting, device or other advertisement of any kind whatsoever is
placed, posted, tacked, nailed, pasted, painted or otherwise fastened or
affixed. This definition shall not be held to include any board, sign or
surface used exclusively to display official notices issued by any court or
public office or posted by any public officer in performance of a public duty
or a private person in giving a legal notice.
AREA OF SIGN: The area of the largest rectangle or triangle that is required to
enclose the sign. In the case of an irregularly shaped sign, or a sign made of
individual cutout letters, the area shall be the sum of the areas of the
rectangles or triangles necessary to enclose each letter or part of the sign.
The area of V-type signs shall be the total area of all faces. The area of any
two-faced sign shall be the area of one side or face.
BILLBOARD: An advertising structure which advertises a use not conducted on the
same premises or a product not produced or fabricated on the same premises.
BUILDING LINE: That line established by this title, or by increased variance
thereof, beyond which no part of the main building or structure may be erected
or constructed, or a further setback from lot lines agreed to as building line
by adjoining property owners within any particular block frontage.
ELECTRIC SIGN: Any advertising device which has electric wiring in, on or
attached to such structure and is served or energized with electric current for
the purpose of illumination or for any other purpose.
GROUND SIGN: A detached sign entirely within the property lines erected upon or
supported by the ground.
IDENTIFICATION OR ANNOUNCEMENT SIGN: Any announcement sign, professional sign
or nameplate giving the name and a permitted occupation or use located on the
premises.
MURAL: A non-advertising artistic image affixed, painted, or drawn directly on
the exterior of a building, or on the inside of any window visible from the
outside of a building.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign attached to a building or other structure and
extending in whole or in part more than twelve inches (12") beyond the building
line.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign placed upon a property advertising that particular
property for sale or for rent or for lease.
SIDEWALK: That public property which exists between the property line and the
established street curb.
SIGN: Any advertising structure, display board, screen structure, circus
poster, poster, bill, bulletin, printing, painting, device, object or part
thereof used to announce, identify, declare, demonstrate, display or otherwise
advertise and attract the attention of the public by words, letters, figures,
designs, fixtures, colors or illumination publicly displayed out of doors.
WALL SIGN: A sign attached to, painted or erected against a wall of a building
or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately
parallel to the plane of such wall.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign painted on or attached to either the inside or outside of a
window. (Ord. 2018-02, 9-11-2018)
10-14-6: PERMIT; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
A building permit shall be required for every sign and advertising structure
regulated by this chapter. The City building inspector is hereby authorized to
cause removal of any sign erected in violation of this chapter. Such signs may
be recovered by the owner reimbursing the City for all costs incurred by such
removal. (Ord. 168)
10-14-7: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PERMIT:
Two (2) copies of plans and specifications shall be submitted with the
application for a permit for each sign regulated by this chapter, one copy to
be returned to the applicant at the time the permit is granted. Such plans
shall show complete details, size of the sign, method of attachment or support,
and location and materials to be used and the name, address and profession of
the person designing plans and specifications of such sign. Plans for supports
of all roof signs and other signs subject to excessive stresses shall be
submitted to show that supporting surfaces and other members of an existing
building to which the sign is to be attached are in good condition and are
adequately strong to support the load. (Ord. 168)
10-14-8: ERECTION; CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   No person shall erect, construct or cause or permit to be erected or
constructed, any advertising structure or sign upon or over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or public place or property, except as may be permitted
in this chapter or as required by any other law or ordinance of the City. This
section does not apply to temporary signs such as real estate signs for the
sale or lease of real estate or campaign, election or other signs used to
influence a vote on a ballot.
   B.   Hanging signs over the boardwalk and/or sidewalk over public right-of-
way shall be permitted; provided however that said signs shall not exceed the
size of two feet (2') in height by eight feet (8') in length, and provided that
said sign must clear eight feet (8') over the walkway. Maximum area of any sign
hanging over boardwalk shall be eight (8) square feet. Hanging signs existing
at the time of the effective date of this amendment shall be permitted to
remain, but must be made to conform to the above requirements whenever the name
of the business changes, and/or the existing sign is to be renewed or changed.
(Ord. 2018-02, 9-11-2018)
10-14-9: IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
All signs shall be marked with the maker's name and the name of the person or
firm erecting such sign, and the date of installation and permit number. Such
required marking shall be plainly placed on the exterior surface of the sign in
a location where such information will be readily visible and legible after
installation and erection, and shall be kept legible thereafter. (Ord. 168)
10-14-10: GENERAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Signs coming under the regulations of this chapter shall be maintained in good
and safe structural condition at all times. Signs found to be unsafe or
defective may be removed by the building inspector. (Ord. 168)
10-14-11: INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC:
No sign shall be erected in such a manner as to interfere in any way with, or
confuse traffic, or present any traffic hazard. (Ord. 168)
10-14-12: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
All signs and other advertising structures shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Building Code of the City. (Ord. 168)
10-14-13: ELECTRICAL SIGNS:
All electrical signs shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the
currently adopted Electrical Code and the requirements of the City. (Ord. 168)
10-14-14: AREA AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Only the signs hereinafter specified and listed in this section shall be
permitted in the districts herein specified as follows. (Ord. 168)
10-14-14-1: R-1, MH-1 AND R-2 RESIDENCE ZONES:
Permitted signs:
   A.   Real Estate Signs: Real estate signs not over eight (8) square feet in
aggregate area on any one lot fifty feet (50') or less in width. For each ten
feet (10') by which the width of the lot or of two (2) or more contiguous lots
in single ownership exceeds fifty feet (50'), one square foot may be added to
the above aggregate area of eight (8) square feet. Such signs may set or
project a maximum of two feet (2') from the building line into a required yard.
The area of any such sign shall not exceed twenty five (25) square feet.
   B.   Identification Or Announcement Signs: Small announcement or
professional signs attached flat against the building, not over two (2) square
feet in area, except that a public, charitable or religious institution may
have for its own use an announcement sign or bulletin board not over twelve
(12) square feet in area, which, if not attached flat against a building, shall
be distant at least twelve feet (12') from all lot lines. Such signs may be
illuminated provided the source of light is not visible.
   C.   Wall Signs: Wall signs appertaining to a nonconforming business use
upon the premises on which they are maintained and not exceeding in the
aggregate twenty (20) square feet in area per street frontage. Such signs may
be illuminated provided the source of light is not visible. (Ord. 168)
10-14-14-2: R-3 AND R-4 RESIDENCE ZONES:
   A.   Permitted Signs: All signs permitted in R-2.
   B.   Hotel, Inn, Lodging House And Trailer Court Announcement Signs: A
hotel, inn, lodging house and trailer court, as allowed in R-3 and R-4 may have
an announcement sign not over six (6) square feet in area, which, if not
attached to a building, shall be distant at least twelve feet (12') from all
lot lines. Such signs may be illuminated provided the source of light is not
visible. (Ord. 168)
10-14-14-3: B-1 BUSINESS ZONES:
   A.   Permitted Signs: All signs permitted in R-4.
   B.   Signs Bearing Firm Names: Any sign in this zone shall be used to show
the name of the firm or business or to set forth the character of goods sold or
services offered upon the premises. The total area of all such signs permitted
for any one occupancy on any one street shall not exceed one square foot for
each linear foot of lot frontage, except that such area need not be less than
twenty (20) square feet.
   C.   Maximum Projection: Any sign, including wall signs and ground signs,
may extend twenty four inches (24") beyond the building lines. (Ord. 168)
10-14-14-4: B-2, I-1 AND I-2 ZONES:
   A.   Permitted Signs: All signs permitted in B-1.
   B.   Signs Bearing Firm Names: Signs used to show the name of the firm or
business or to set forth the character of goods sold and services offered on
the premises; provided, the total area of all such signs, except billboards,
used by any one firm or business on any one street shall not be more than five
(5) square feet for each linear foot of lot frontage with a total area limit of
all signs, except billboards of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet.
   C.   Billboards: Billboards or advertising signboards attached or unattached
to a building; provided, each such signboard shall have at least three feet
(3') of clear space beneath it, and the advertising surface of the signboard,
including the latticework and ornamental molding, shall not exceed sixteen feet
(16') in height and forty seven feet (47') in length. Any such signboard shall
not set closer than twenty feet (20') to the intersection of the street lot
lines of a vacant corner lot. (Ord. 168)
10-14-15: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions and regulations of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
   A.   Any sign placed or painted on the inside of a building or on the inside
or outside of any bus or vehicle.
   B.   Miscellaneous traffic or other Municipal signs, danger signs, railroad
crossing signs, legal notices, trespassing signs or signs of public service
companies indicating danger or aids to service or safety.
   C.   Cornerstones or tablets when built into or attached to the walls of a
building or structure; provided, such cornerstones or tablets bear only names,
uses and events pertaining to the building. (Ord. 168)
10-14-16: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING BUSINESSES:
10-14-16-1: DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, any person, firm or corporation who erects or
maintains a sign advertising a business other than his own shall be deemed to
be in the business of outdoor advertising. (Ord. 168)
10-14-16-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person in the outdoor advertising business or repair of advertising
structures shall obtain a City license to conduct such operations. The license
to erect signs shall be known as an "outdoor advertising license" and shall be
issued by the License Department of the City. (Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-1970)
10-14-16-3: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENT:
Prior to the issuance of a license to install outdoor advertising, the person
desiring such a license shall file with the City a good and sufficient bond
running to the City, the penal sum of which shall be ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) to indemnify, save and keep harmless the City from any and all
costs, damages or expenses of any kind whatsoever which may be suffered by the
City or which it may be put to, or which may accrue against it from, or by
reason of failure or refusal of such person to comply with all the provisions
of this chapter applicable to such signs. Such bond shall be noncancellable
except with permission of the City. An insurance policy covering bodily injury
liability with the minimum coverage of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for
one person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per accident and
property damage insurance for a minimum coverage of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00), issued by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the State, shall be maintained during the period for which the license is
issued. In lieu of the indemnity bond required by this section the licensee may
cause the City to be named a coinsured in the policy of liability insurance
required by this section, or cause said policy to contain a standard
contractual liability clause covering a save harmless agreement to and with the
City and said licensee. If such save harmless agreement is executed by said
licensee and filed with the City Treasurer and a copy of said liability
insurance policy or certificate of the existence thereof, with such provision,
is filed with the application for license, then the indemnity bond need not be
filed or furnished. (Ord. 168)
10-14-16-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
At any time the bond or insurance policy required by the preceding section is
permitted to lapse, the license shall be automatically revoked. (Ord. 168)
10-14-17: INSPECTION OF SIGNS:
All signs existing at the time of passage of this chapter or any signs erected
at any time in the future which require a permit shall be subject to inspection
by the Building Inspection Department at any time, and if found not to comply
with the requirements of the City as to safety, shall be corrected within such
reasonable time as specified by the Building Inspection Department or shall be
subject to the penalties provided in this Code. (Ord. 168)
10-14-18: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
No sign within the scope of this chapter shall be erected in the City after the
effective date hereof, unless it complies with the requirements of this
chapter. Any sign erected before the effective date of this chapter and not
complying with its requirements shall be removed when the use of the premises
changes and in any case not later than five (5) years from the effective date
of this chapter, and after that time no sign shall be erected, maintained or
used that does not comply with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 168)
10-14-19: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS:
The City Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall have the same powers and
authority, and shall follow the same procedures, with regard to the provisions
of this chapter as provided in this title. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 15
GENERAL PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Restrictiveness Of Zones
10-15-2: Additional Uses Permitted
10-15-3: Height Limit Exceptions
10-15-4: Exceptions For Lots Of Record
10-15-5: Structures In Front Yards On Corner Lots
10-15-6: Front Yard Exceptions For Existing Alignment
10-15-7: Exception For Porches, Walls And Fences
10-15-8: Projections Into Yards
10-15-9: Rear Yard Adjoining Alley
10-15-10: Detached Accessory Building On Corner Lot
10-15-11: Yard Exception For Detached Accessory Building
10-15-1: RESTRICTIVENESS OF ZONES:
The various zones are given the following values, from the highest to least
restrictive:
   A.   R-1 single residence zone;
   B.   MH-1 mobile home zone;
   C.   R-2 multiple residence zone;
   D.   R-3 multiple residence zone;
   E.   R-4 multiple residence zone;
   F.   B-1 local business zone;
   G.   B-2 general business zone;
   H.   I-1 light industry and warehouse zone;
   I.   I-2 industrial and mining zone (Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 02-69-70, 4-30-
1970)
10-15-2: ADDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The following accessory uses shall be permitted in any zone when the principal
use itself is permitted:
   A.   The operation of necessary facilities and equipment in connection with
schools, colleges, universities, hospitals and other institutions.
   B.   Recreation, refreshment and service buildings in public parks,
playgrounds and golf courses. (Ord. 168)
10-15-3: HEIGHT LIMIT EXCEPTIONS:
The height limits of the ordinance shall not apply to:
   A.   Barns, chimneys, conveyers, cupolas, derricks, domes, flagpoles,
observation towers, parapet walls extending not more than four feet (4') above
the height limit of the building, radio or television towers, masts and
aerials, silos, smokestacks, transmission towers, windmills and power
transmission poles.
   B.   Churches, hospitals, sanitariums, schools or other public and
semipublic buildings. Any such building may be erected to a height not
exceeding forty feet (40'), provided the minimum side and rear yards are
increased by an additional foot, and width or depth, for each foot by which the
height of such building exceeds the maximum height permitted in the zone in
which such building is to be located. (Ord. 168)
10-15-4: EXCEPTIONS FOR LOTS OF RECORD:
The following shall apply to any lot shown upon an official subdivision map
duly approved and recorded prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or
any lot for which a bona fide deed is of record in the office of the county
recorder of Cochise County or for which valid, bona fide contract of sale is in
full force and effect at the time this ordinance becomes effective, and said
map, deed or contract of sale is of record on said date:
   A.   Any such lot may be used as a building site, provided the yard and
other requirements of this ordinance are occupied with, but no permit shall be
issued for more than one dwelling unit on any lot having less than the minimum
area per dwelling unit on the zone in which such lot is located.
   B.   Each minimum side yard may be reduced by two inches (2") for each one
foot (1') by which such lot is narrower than fifty feet (50'); provided that no
minimum side yard shall be narrower than three feet (3'). (Ord. 168)
10-15-5: STRUCTURES IN FRONT YARDS ON CORNER LOTS:
On any corner lot, no fence, structure, sign or painting shall be erected or
maintained within twenty feet (20') of the property corner so as to interfere
with traffic visibility across the corner. (Ord. 168)
10-15-6: FRONT YARD EXCEPTIONS FOR EXISTING ALIGNMENT:
   A.   In any residential zone where a lot adjoins lots having existing front
yards less than the minimum required by this ordinance, the minimum front yard
on said lot may be the average of the existing front yards on the two (2)
adjoining lots or if only one of the lots is built upon such front yard may be
the average of the existing front yard of the adjoining lot and the minimum
front yard of the zone; provided no such front yard shall be less than ten feet
(10').
   B.   In any business zone, the minimum front yard required on interior lots
need not be greater than any existing front yard within five hundred feet
(500') and in the same block front. (Ord. 168)
10-15-7: EXCEPTION FOR PORCHES, WALLS AND FENCES:
The yard requirements of this ordinance shall not apply to porches, walls or
fences less than six feet (6') in height. (Ord. 168)
10-15-8: PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS:
   A.   In any business or industrial zone, a marquee, canopy or awning,
suspended or cantilevered from a building, either for the purpose of, or for
giving the appearance of shelter or shade, may project not more than ten feet
(10') into any minimum front yard.
   B.   An eave or roof overhang may project one-half (1/2) the width of a side
yard but not closer to a side lot line than three feet (3') in any case. (Ord.
168)
10-15-9: REAR YARD ADJOINING ALLEY:
A minimum rear yard may be measured to the centerline of an alley adjoining
such rear yard, provided no building or structure be erected closer than four
feet (4') to a rear lot line. (Ord. 168)
10-15-10: DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDING ON CORNER LOT:
On any corner lot an accessory building shall be not closer to the street side
lot line than the width of the side yard required for the main building on that
lot; provided further, that where the rear of a corner lot adjoins a key lot,
or part of an accessory building within ten feet (10') of the rear lot line,
shall be nearer the street side lot line than the depth of the front yard
required on the key lot. (Ord. 168)
10-15-11: YARD EXCEPTION FOR DETACHED ACCESSORY BUILDING:
A private garage or other accessory building may be built on or across a common
lot line by mutual agreement between the adjoining property owners. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 16
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-16-1: Application
10-16-2: Fees
10-16-3: Public Hearing
10-16-4: Evidence Required For Variance
10-16-5: Board Of Adjustment And Appeals Action
10-16-6: Disapproved Application
10-16-7: Conditional Approval
10-16-8: Guarantees
10-16-1: APPLICATION:
Application for any permissible variance of regulations as provided herein
shall be made by the owner or a representative to the board of adjustment and
appeals by written application for a permit. Such application shall be
accompanied by:
   A.   Accurate plot plans and descriptions of the property involved and the
proposed use with preliminary floor plans and elevations of all proposed
buildings.
   B.   Evidence satisfactory to the board of adjustment and appeals, of the
ability and intention of the applicant to proceed with actual construction work
in accordance with said plans within six (6) months after issuance of permit.
   C.   A list showing the names and addresses of all persons, firms or
corporations appearing on public record as owning property within the area
proposed to be affected within three hundred feet (300') of any part of the
property for which a variance is requested. The list must include the names of
all persons purchasing land under recorded contracts of sale, and must be
certified as to completeness by the applicant or some person otherwise
qualified by knowledge of the public records. The building inspector shall
satisfy himself of the completeness of the list before accepting it for filing.
(Ord. 168)
   D.   In a request for a variance to stable or domicile barnyard pets in the
subdivided portions of the city, the application will include the signed
concurrence of at least seventy five percent (75%) of property owners by number
and area of all properties any part of which is within three hundred feet
(300') of the property for which the variance is requested. (Ord. 75-76-01, 9-
15-1975)
10-16-2: FEES:
The board of adjustment and appeals is authorized to make the following
charges:
   A.   For an application requesting rezoning, there will be a total charge of
five hundred dollars ($500.00). Three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be
applied towards processing the request and the cost of advertising. Two hundred
dollars ($200.00) shall be applied towards attorney fees incurred by the city
for processing the request.
   B.   For an application requesting a variance, there will be a charge of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall be applied to expenses incurred by the
city.
   C.   For an application requesting the abandonment of property, there will
be a total charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Three hundred dollars
($300.00) shall be applied towards the city's expenses in processing the
request. Two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be applied towards attorney fees
incurred by the city. (Ord. 2-1996, 3-25-1996)
10-16-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt, in proper form, of the application, the board of adjustment and
appeals shall proceed to hold a public hearing upon the application not more
than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days after the filing, at
which all persons whose property is directly affected and the general public
shall be given an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the application and
hearing shall be given not less than seven (7) days prior to the hearing by
publication of the notice at least once in a newspaper of general circulation
in the area involved, and by depositing in the United States mail notices
thereof addressed to the last known owners as shown on the list submitted by
the applicant under the provisions of subsection 10-16-1C of this chapter.
(Ord. 168)
10-16-4: EVIDENCE REQUIRED FOR VARIANCE:
At the public hearing on a variance application, the applicant shall present a
statement and adequate evidence in such form as the board of adjustment and
appeals may require for the purpose of showing:
   A.   That there are special circumstances or conditions applicable to the
property referred to in the applications which do not prevail on other property
in that zone.
   B.   That the strict application of the regulations would work an
unnecessary hardship and that the granting of the application is necessary for
the preservation and enjoyment of substantial existing property rights.
   C.   That the granting of such application will not materially affect the
health or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood and will
not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood. (Ord. 168)
10-16-5: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS ACTION:
In the event the board of adjustment and appeals finds that substantial
conformity to standards previously established in the zone may be secured and
that detriment or injury to the neighborhood will not result from the granting
of a variance as applied for, it may approve or conditionally approve the
issuance of said permit and transmit notice of its action to the building
inspector. A report of its findings and recommendations and any conditions
imposed or required shall also be submitted promptly to the planning and zoning
commission and the city council. (Ord. 168)
10-16-6: DISAPPROVED APPLICATION:
In the event the board of adjustment and appeals disapproves an application for
a variance, no permit shall be issued pending further action thereon by an
appeal to the superior court within thirty (30) days from the date said
disapproval is officially entered on the minutes of the board. If said court
shall overrule the action of the board, then the building inspector shall issue
the request permit without further action of the board, unless the court orders
the board to hold a further hearing to permit the board to fix conditions or
require guarantees, as set forth in sections
10-16-7 and
10-16-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 168)
10-16-7: CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
In approving any variance, the board of adjustment and appeals may designate
such conditions in connection therewith as will, in its opinion, secure
substantially the objectives of the regulation or provision to which such
variance is granted, to provide adequately for the maintenance of the integrity
and character of the zone in which such permit is granted, and shall provide
the zoning inspector with a copy of the same. (Ord. 168)
10-16-8: GUARANTEES:
Where necessary, the board of adjustment and appeals may require guarantees, in
such form as it may deem proper under the circumstances, to ensure that the
conditions designated in connection therewith are being or will be complied
with. Where any condition under which a variance has been granted is violated,
the variance shall cease to exist and the permit shall become null and void.
(Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 17
ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
10-17-1: Interpretation, Purpose And Conflict
10-17-2: Enforcement
10-17-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-17-4: Violations And Penalties
10-17-5: City Attorney To Institute Action
10-17-1: INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this ordinance to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way to impair
or interfere with any existing provision of law relating to the use of
buildings or premises or relating to the erection, construction, establishment,
alteration or enlargement of any buildings or improvements, except to the
extent any existing provisions conflict with or are inconsistent with the valid
provisions of this ordinance, and to that extent and no more, the same are
hereby repealed. It is not intended by this ordinance to interfere with or
abrogate or annul any easement, covenant or other agreement between private
parties, but where zoning provisions of this ordinance are more restrictive
than any existing private restrictive covenant affecting any portion of the
incorporated area of the city, said zoning provisions shall prevail over said
private covenant. It is specifically intended, however, that none of the
provisions of this ordinance amend, alter or affect in any manner ordinance 146
of the city of Tombstone. (Ord. 168)
10-17-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement By Building Inspector: It shall be the duty of the building
inspector with the aid of the police department to enforce this ordinance in
accordance with the administrative provisions of the building code and this
ordinance.
   B.   Filing Plans: All applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be occupied, the exact size and location of the lot,
of the buildings and accessory buildings existing, and the lines within which
the building or structure shall be erected, altered or placed, the existing and
intended use of each building or part of building, the number of families or
housekeeping units the building is designated to accommodate, and such other
information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be necessary to
determine and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. One copy of such
plans shall be returned to the owner when such plans shall have been approved
by the building inspector.
All dimensions shown in these plans relating to the location and size of the
lot to be occupied shall be based on an actual survey. The lot and the location
of the building thereon shall be staked out on the ground before the
construction or placement is started. (Ord. 168)
10-17-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No land or building shall be occupied or used, and no building shall be
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, used, located or changed in use
until a temporary certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the
building inspector. Such certificate shall state that such building or
premises, or a part thereof, and the proposed use thereof are in conformity
with the provisions of this title. It shall be the duty of the building
inspector to issue a final certificate of occupancy, after construction,
reconstruction, location, alteration, repair, use or change in use shall have
been completed, provided that he is satisfied with the building or premises,
and the proposed use thereof, conform with all the requirements of this
chapter.
The building inspector shall not issue a permit for excavations for foundation
or construction of any sort, before a temporary certificate of occupancy for a
part of the building, certificate of occupancy shall have been issued.
   B.   Under such rules and regulations as may be established by him, the
building inspector may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a part of
the building.
   C.   Upon written request from the owner or tenant, the building inspector
shall issue a certificate of occupancy for any building or premises existing at
the time of enactment of this chapter, certifying after inspection, the extent
and kind of use of the building or premises and whether such use conforms to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 168)
   D.   Prior to moving a "mobile home", as defined in this title, onto a lot
in an area zoned "MH-1 mobile home zone", or, on a lot zoned other than MH-
1 where a variance has been granted by the board of adjustment and appeals for
the occupancy of a mobile home; the owner thereof shall obtain a temporary
certificate of occupancy from the city building inspector. The building
inspector will ensure that the owner is familiar with the provisions of chapter
4 of this title. The fee for this temporary certificate of occupancy shall be
ten dollars ($10.00). The issuance of this temporary certificate of occupancy
does not obliterate the necessity for a regular building permit prior to any
work as set forth above. (Ord. 76-77-04, 9-13-1976)
10-17-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply
with or resisting the enforcement of any of the provisions of this ordinance,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment not
to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 168)
10-17-5: CITY ATTORNEY TO INSTITUTE ACTION:
In case a building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstruction,
located, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure
or land is used in violation of Arizona law applicable to the city of
Tombstone, or of the provisions of this ordinance, the city attorney in
addition to other remedies, shall institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, placement,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or
abate such violations, to prevent the occupancy of such buildings, structure or
land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such
premises.
The building inspector shall report all violations of this ordinance, coming to
his attention, to the city attorney immediately. (Ord. 168; amd. Ord. 02-69-70,
4-30-1970)
CHAPTER 18
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Authority
10-18-2: Preliminary Petition For Change
10-18-3: Commission Action
10-18-4: Consents Required For Zone Change
10-18-5: Mayor And Council Action
10-18-6: Filing Of Petition
10-18-7: Newly Annexed Areas
10-18-1: AUTHORITY:
The mayor and council may from time to time, after receiving a report thereupon
by the planning and zoning commission and after public hearings required by
law, amend, supplement or change the regulations or zones set forth herein or
subsequently established. Any amendment, supplement or change may be initiated
by the mayor and council, the commission or by petition of affected person.
(Ord. 168)
10-18-2: PRELIMINARY PETITION FOR CHANGE:
Any person desiring a reclassification of property of change in the regulations
applicable thereto may file with the mayor and council a petition on a form and
in a manner provided by the commission, describing the desired amendment,
supplement or change of the regulation or of zone boundaries. Upon receipt of
such petition, the mayor and council shall submit the same to the commission
for a report. A uniform fee, amounting to the cost of advertising, shall be
paid to the city upon the filing of each such petition for change. (Ord. 168)
10-18-3: COMMISSION ACTION:
Upon receipt of any proposed zoning change, the commission shall delimit the
extent and boundaries of any area of proposed changes so as to constitute a
reasonable zone. Prior to reporting to the mayor and council, the commission
shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, after giving legal notice as
required by law. (Ord. 168)
10-18-4: CONSENTS REQUIRED FOR ZONE CHANGE:
Any person requesting rezoning of property shall file upon forms provided by
the commission a petition in favor of such change containing the written
consents of at least fifty one percent (51%) of the owners by number and area
of all other properties any part of which is within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of the proposed change and which have a more restrictive classification
than is sought by the petitioners and of at least seventy five percent (75%) of
the owners by number and area of all properties including in the change. (Ord.
168)
10-18-5: MAYOR AND COUNCIL ACTION:
The mayor and council, upon receipt of the commission's recommendations, shall
hold a public hearing thereon after the legal notices as required by law. The
mayor and council may accept the commission's recommendations or may modify,
change or reject them. (Ord. 168)
10-18-6: FILING OF PETITION:
At the time of filing the final petition with the commission, the petitioner
shall file in addition to the required signatures a list showing the names and
addresses of the owners of all property within the area to be rezoned and
within two hundred feet (200') of this area. In addition, the petitioner shall
file a map showing the boundaries and size in square feet of all property in
the area to be changed and in the area within one hundred fifty feet (150') of
that area. (Ord. 168)
10-18-7: NEWLY ANNEXED AREAS:
   A.   Upon the annexation of additional areas to the city, it shall be the
duty of the city planning and zoning commission or the secretary thereof to
immediately give notice of a public hearing in accordance with the provisions
of this ordinance, and at such hearing shall present the supplemental zoning
the planning and zoning commission proposes for the area annexed.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the mayor and council and the planning and
zoning commission, after giving the public notices and holding the required
public hearings and after due consideration of the matters presented at such
hearings, to provide supplemental zoning for the area annexed by ordinance as
soon as possible, and the zoning map of the city shall be forthwith changed and
supplemented to include the zoning adopted for the annexed area by such
ordinance.
   C.   After the public notice provided for in subsection A of this section,
no building permit shall be issued to any person in the annexed area until the
zoning ordinance providing supplemental city zoning for such area has been
passed and adopted. However, a permit may be issued for necessary repairs or
for a proposed structure complying with all the provisions in this ordinance
for R-1 single residence zone. (Ord. 168)
CHAPTER 19
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT ZONING CODE
SECTION:
10-19-1: Historic Preservation District Limits
10-19-2: Purpose
10-19-3: Definitions
10-19-4: General Applicability
10-19-5: Certificate Of Appropriateness For Alteration, Restoration,
Reconstruction, Demolition, Or Moving Of A Structure, Or New Construction
Affecting Landmarks Or Buildings
10-19-6: Certificate Of Appropriateness Application Procedure
10-19-7: Criteria For Approval Of Certificate Of Appropriateness
10-19-8: Design And Signage Guidelines
10-19-9: Demolition Or Moving Of Structures From Within Historic Preservation
Districts
10-19-10: Maintenance
10-19-11: Public Conveyances Within Historic Preservation Districts
10-19-12: Violation And Penalties
10-19-13: Standard Administrative Procedures
10-19-14: Appeals Process
10-19-15: Severance Clause
10-19-1: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT LIMITS:
The provisions of this chapter apply to the areas listed below:
Block 2, lots 10 through 13
Block 3, lots 1 through 24
Block 4, lots 1 through 24
Block 5, lots 1 through 24
Block 6, lots 1 and 19 through 24
Block S, lots 1 through 10
Block T, lots 1 through 10
Block 51/2, lots 1 through 10
Block 16, lots 10 through 13
Block 17, lots 1 through 24
Block 18, lots 1 through 24
Block 19, lots 1 through 24
Block 20, lots 1, 2, 22, 23, and 24
Block 31, lots 13 through 22
Block 32, lots 13 through 22
Block 33, lots 13 through 22
(Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the social, economic, educational,
cultural, and general welfare of the community by:
   A.   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the distinctive
historic, political, and architectural characteristics and elements of
Tombstone;
   B.   Fostering civic pride in the historic heritage of Tombstone, as
represented in the city's landmarks, historic buildings and historic
preservation districts;
   C.   Conserving and improving the value of property, designated as landmarks
or within historic preservation districts;
   D.   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the city to property
investors, business entrepreneurs, tourists, visitors, and shoppers, and
thereby supporting and promoting business, commerce, industry, and providing a
stable, long range economic benefit to the city;
   E.   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration, and rehabilitation
of the structures, areas, and neighborhoods, and thereby preventing future
deterioration and blight of the city;
   F.   Maximizing and protecting for future generations the attractiveness,
unique historical character, and perceived authenticity for visitors of the
city's historic preservation districts;
   G.   Reflecting the early fame and reputation of the city and its place in
the history of the Southwest and of the United States. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-
2015)
10-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below or elsewhere in the land development code,
words or phrases in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the
same meanings as they have in common usage and so as to give this chapter its
most reasonable application. The word "shall" is mandatory and the words
"should" and "may" are permissive. When used in this chapter, the following
words shall have the meanings herein ascribed to them:
ALTERATION: Any act or process that changes one or more of the existing
features of a structure, including, but not limited to, exterior changes or
modifications of a structure or any of its architectural details or visual
characteristics, including paint color and surface texture, facade materials,
surface paving, landscape features, and placement or removal of signs, plaques,
light fixtures, walls, fences, and street furniture.
APPLICANT: A person seeking a designation or authorization under this chapter
or the person's designated and duly authorized agent or representative. This
term may include the property owner, occupant of the site, the historic
preservation commission ("HPC") or city commission.
APPURTENANT FEATURES: The features that define the design of a building or
property including, but not limited to, porches, railings; columns, shutters,
steps, fences, attic vents, sidewalks, driveways, garages, carports,
outbuildings, gazebos, and arbors.
ARCHAEOLOGICAL PROPERTY/SITE: Any locale where there is physical evidence of
past human activity that is either prehistoric or historic in age.
AREA OF SIGN: The area of the largest rectangle, square, or triangle required
to enclose the sign. In the case of an irregularly shaped sign, or a sign made
of individual cutout letters, the area shall be the sum of the areas of the
squares, rectangles, or triangles necessary to enclose each letter or part of
the sign. The area of any two (2) sided sign shall be the area of one side.
BUILDING: Shall refer to a dwelling, such as a house, barn, church, school,
hotel, bar, restaurant, retail store, municipal building, or similar structure
created to shelter any form of human activity. The term may also be used to
refer to a historically and functionally related unit, such as a courthouse and
jail or a house and barn. The term also includes mobile homes, manufactured
homes, industrial housing and other movable structures intended to be
stationary for an indefinite period of time.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: A certificate issued by the historic
preservation commission indicating its approval of plans for alteration,
restoration, reconstruction, removal, or demolition of a historic landmark; or
for alteration, new construction, removal, or demolition of nonhistoric
structures within a historic preservation district.
CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT: A local government certified or approved by the
state historic preservation office (SHPO), which has an appointed commission to
oversee the survey and inventory of historic resources, to review areas for
historically significant structures, and to develop and maintain community
planning and education programs.
CONTRIBUTING BUILDING: A historic building that is at least fifty (50) years
old or older that retains a significant amount of its physical integrity and
character defining features including location, setting, design, construction,
workmanship, and/or association with historical persons or events.
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Allowing a building to fall into such a state of
disrepair that it becomes necessary or desirable to demolish it.
DESIGN GUIDELINES: Guidelines of appropriateness or compatibility of building
design within a community or historic preservation district. Often in the form
of a handbook, design guidelines contain drawings accompanying "do's and
don'ts" for the property owner. The historic preservation commission has
authority to administer design guidelines.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE: The architectural character and general
composition of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
kind, color, and texture of the building material, and the type, design, and
character of all windows, doors, walls, roofs, overhangs, light fixtures,
signs, and appurtenant elements, and yards and/or open spaces.
FACADE: The entire building front including the parapet.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured between the highest point of a structure
and the finished floor elevation of the lowest floor where any portion of floor
is at or above finish grade.
HISTORIC DESIGNATIONS: An official recognition of the significance of a
building, property or district. Designation can occur on three (3) different
levels:
Federal: The national register of historic places (for both individual
buildings and entire districts);
State: Recorded Arizona historic landmarks (only for individual buildings) and
state archaeological landmarks; or
Local: Designated under a municipal historic ordinance either individually as a
landmark or as a locally designated district.
HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, structure, object or site designated by city
council as a historic landmark.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The protection, reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair
and restoration of places and structures of historic, architectural, or
archaeological significance.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION (HPC): The seven (7) member board established
under section
2-1-1 of this code and appointed by city council.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT: An area designated as a "historic preservation
district" by ordinance of the mayor and common council, including, but not
limited to, the Schieffelin historic preservation district, and which may
contain within definable geographic boundaries one or more generally recognized
historic landmarks, or which may have within its boundaries other properties or
structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural significance
to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual
characteristics of the city.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION INSPECTOR: A person recommended by the historic
preservation commission, and confirmed by the mayor and common council, who
shall receive applications from the public and perform inspections for the
commission, as described elsewhere in this chapter. Such person may be either
the city building inspector, or a separate person reporting to the commission.
HISTORIC REHABILITATION: The process of returning a property to a state of
utility, through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient
contemporary use while preserving those portions and features of the property
which are significant to its historic, architectural, and cultural values.
HISTORIC RESOURCE: Any building, structure, object or site that is fifty (50)
years or older or any resource that has been identified as a high or medium
priority because of its unique history or architectural characteristics.
HISTORIC RESOURCES SURVEY: A systematic, detailed examination of an area
designed to gather information about historic properties sufficient to evaluate
them against predetermined criteria of significance.
HISTORIC SITE, HISTORIC STRUCTURE, OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A site, structure or
property which has historic and/or architectural significance, and is at least
fifty (50) years old from the date of construction; and which contributes to
the historic, architectural, cultural, archaeological or other significant
value as part of the heritage or history of the city, the state of Arizona, or
the nation.
INTEGRITY: The authenticity of a property's historic identity, evidenced by
survival of physical characteristics that existed during the property's
historic or prehistoric period.
INVENTORY: A list of historic properties that have been identified and
evaluated as meeting specified criteria of significance.
LANDMARK: See definition of Historic Landmark.
LOCAL HISTORIC LANDMARK: Any site, building, structure, or landscape of
historic significance that receives designation by the city pursuant to this
chapter.
LOCAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT: A geographically and locally defined area
that possesses a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of
buildings, objects, sites, structures, or landscapes united by past events,
periods, or styles of architecture, and that, by reason of such factors
constitute a distinct section of the city. Historic sites within a local
district need not be contiguous for an area to constitute a district. All
sites, buildings, and structures within a local historic preservation district,
whether individually contributing or not are subject to the regulations of the
district.
MINOR ALTERATIONS: The installation or alteration to awnings, fences, gutters,
downspouts, and incandescent lighting fixtures; restoration of original
architectural features that constitute a change from the existing condition;
alterations to signs; and additions and changes not visible from any street to
the rear of the main structure or to an accessory structure.
NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES: The nation's official list of buildings,
districts, and sites (including structures and objects) significant in American
history and culture, architecture, archaeology and engineering maintained by
the national park service and administered on a statewide basis by the Arizona
historical commission. Restrictions on these properties exist only when there
is an undertaking that uses federal funds or that requires a federal permit or
license.
NEIGHBORHOOD: An area of a community with characteristics that distinguish it
from other community areas and which may include distinct ethnic or economic
characteristics, schools, or social clubs, or boundaries defined by physical
barriers such as major highways or railroads or natural features such as
rivers.
OBJECT: A physical item associated with a specific setting or environment that
is movable by nature or design, such as statuary in a designed landscape. The
term object is used to distinguish from buildings and structures those
constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are relatively small in
scale and simply constructed.
ORDER OF DEMOLITION: An order issued by the HPC, in accordance with the
planning and zoning commission, indicating approval of plans for demolition of
a designated landmark or property within a designated district.
ORDINARY MAINTENANCE: Repair of any exterior or architectural feature of a
landmark or property within a historic preservation district which does not
involve a change to the architectural or historic value, style or general
design. In-kind replacement or repair is included in this definition of
ordinary maintenance.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: Zoning, applied over one or more other districts, creates a
second, mapped zone that is superimposed over the conventional zoning
districts. Overlay district typically provides for a higher level of
regulations in certain areas such as transit station areas, downtown areas, and
historic preservation districts, but may also be used to permit exceptions or
less restrictive standards (fewer parking spaces in a downtown or transit
station area, or more density in an economic development area).
OWNER: The individual, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity in whom
is vested the ownership, dominion, or title of property and who is responsible
for payment of ad valorem taxes on that property; including a lessor or lessee
if responsible for payment of ad valorem taxes.
PRESERVATION: Shall refer to the decision making process conducted by the
historic preservation commission or an appointed historic preservation
inspector that is guided by established terms.
PRESERVATION: The stabilization of a historic building, its materials and
features in their present condition to prevent future deterioration.
Preservation focuses on the maintenance and repair of existing historic
materials and retention of a property's form as it has evolved over time.
(Protection and stabilization have now been consolidated under this treatment.)
RECONSTRUCTION: "The act or process of reproducing by new construction the
exact form and detail of a vanished building, structure, or object, or a part
thereof, as it appeared at a specific period of time" (secretary of the
interior's standards).
RECORDED ARIZONA HISTORICAL LANDMARK: A state designation for buildings
important for their historical associations and which have retained a high
degree of their original historic fabric. They must be at least fifty (50)
years of age and retain their original exterior appearance. State historical
landmarks receive greater legal protection than national register of historic
places designations.
REHABILITATION: "The act or process of returning a property to a state of
utility through repair or alteration that makes possible an efficient
contemporary use while preserving those portions or features of the property
that are significant to its historical, architectural, and cultural values"
(secretary of the interior's standards).
REMOVAL: Any relocation of a structure or portion of a structure on its site or
to another site.
REPAIR: Any restoration of a structure by replacing or fixing broken or
deteriorated elements, which is not considered to be construction, removal or
alteration.
RESTORATION: "The act or process of accurately recovering the form and details
of a property and its setting as it appeared at a particular period of time by
means of the removal of later work or by the replacement of missing earlier
work" (secretary of the interior's standards).
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION: The standards
established by the secretary of the interior for advising federal agencies on
the preservation/rehabilitation of historic properties listed or eligible for
listing on the national register of historic places (36 CFR part 67, historic
preservation certifications). They pertain to historic buildings of all
materials, construction types, sizes, and occupancy, and encompass the exterior
and the interior of historic buildings.
SIGN; ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any physical object or structure which is erected,
affixed, hung, leaned or propped against another object or structure, or
standing by itself independently, or otherwise used for advertising purposes,
whether portable or fixed, upon which any bill, poster, bulleting, printing,
lettering, painting, device or other advertisement of any kind whatsoever is
placed, posted, tacked, nailed, glued, painted, or otherwise fastened or
affixed, regardless of whether the intent or purpose of said physical object or
structure is permanent or temporary, and regardless of whether said physical
object or structure is located at or on the site where the product or service
being advertised is located, or at a different site or location. This
definition shall not be held to include any board, object or surface used
exclusively to display official notices issued by any court or public office,
or posted by any public officer in performance of a public duty, or by a
private person in giving required legal notice.
SITE: The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation
or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished,
where the location itself possesses historical, cultural, or archaeological
value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
STABILIZATION: "The act or process of applying measures designed to reestablish
a weather resistant enclosure and the structural stability of unsafe or
deteriorated property while maintaining the essential form as it exists at
present" (secretary of the interior's standards).
STANDARD APPLICATION FORM: A form processed by the historic preservation
inspector, city clerk, and the commission.
STATE ARCHAEOLOGICAL LANDMARK: A designation made by the Arizona historical
commission and, in the case of privately owned property, with the landowner's
permission. Although called "archaeological" landmarks, this designation can
include buildings as well as archaeological sites. For a building to be
designated as a state archaeological landmark, it must first be listed on the
national register of historic places. Damage to a state archaeological landmark
is subject to criminal, not civil, penalties.
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE (SHPO): The state office responsible for
administering federal historic preservation programs as defined in the national
historic preservation act of 1966, as amended and subsequent legislation. The
executive director of the Arizona historical commission serves as SHPO for the
state of Arizona.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but not limited to,
buildings, fences, walls, advertising signs, billboards, communication towers,
satellite dishes, and tennis courts.
ZONING: A police power measure, enacted by a municipality, including the city,
in which the community is divided into districts or zones within which
permitted and special uses are established as are regulations governing lot
size, building bulk, placement, and other development standards. (Ord. 2015-01,
7-14-2015)
10-19-4: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all properties within the
Schieffelin historic preservation district and any property designated as
having historic significance within the Tombstone city limits, following the
nomination and designation procedures specified in this chapter, provided that
when one or more than one property owners are included in the proposed
designated district, support of a majority of property owners of record, based
on linear street frontage, within the boundaries of the proposed district or
districts, must be submitted to the commission before final acceptance as a
designated district. Such support shall be ascertained by a survey of said
property owners, by the commission, or by written consent of fifty one percent
(51%) of the property owners of record within the boundaries of the proposed
designated district to be submitted with the application. Subsequent to the
establishment of an initial designated district, or districts, other historic
properties and districts may be added in the future upon application of the
owner of said historic property, or of a majority of property owners within
said district, following the same procedures specified in this chapter. (Ord.
2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-5: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR ALTERATION, RESTORATION,
RECONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION, OR MOVING OF A STRUCTURE, OR NEW CONSTRUCTION
AFFECTING LANDMARKS OR BUILDINGS:
   A.   Certificate Of Appropriateness: No person shall carry out any exterior
alteration, restoration, reconstruction, removal, or demolition of a landmark
structure, or exterior alteration or new construction of nonhistoric structures
within a designated historic preservation district or on any individually
designated historic property, nor shall any person make any material change in
the exterior appearance of such property, its signs, light fixtures, fences,
steps, sidewalks, paving, landscaping or other exterior elements visible from a
public street or alley which affect the appearance and cohesiveness of the
designated district, without first applying for and receiving a certificate of
appropriateness from the historic preservation commission.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to any building, grading,
demolition or signage within the Schieffelin historic preservation district or
any building or structure for which a certificate of appropriateness is under
consideration other than minor alterations, as determined by the building
inspector.
   C.   Effect Of Decisions:
      1.   All decisions concerning issuance or disapproval of a certificate of
appropriateness shall be final, unless appealed through the appeal procedure
included in this chapter. The commission may approve the granting of the
certificate of appropriateness, approve the application with conditions, deny
the application, or table the application for further information with the
consent of the applicant, to a suitable meeting date which is agreeable to the
commission and the applicant. Within twenty one (21) days of the receipt of an
application, the historic preservation inspector shall forward a report and
recommendation on the application to the commission. The commission shall act
upon the application by approving it or denying it at a public meeting held for
that purpose, and shall specify the reason(s). The commission shall transmit a
copy of its decision, by first class mail, to the applicant. If the commission
fails to have a quorum at a regularly scheduled meeting where a request for a
certificate of appropriateness is on the agenda, the chairperson may call for a
special meeting within two (2) weeks of the regularly scheduled meeting. Where
the application is approved, the property owner shall have ten (10) days from
the date of approval to sign the certificate of appropriateness or to appeal
any such conditions contained therein. In the event an application is denied,
no permits shall be issued.
      2.   Where the applicant or developer chooses to alter the plans beyond
the conditions included in the certificate of appropriateness, the certificate
will be withdrawn and the applicant shall submit a new or revised application
for the proposed project. Upon resubmittal of the application, the commission
shall schedule a meeting to consider information relative to the new or revised
application for the certificate of appropriateness. At that time, the entire
project will be reviewed and the determination of the commission will be final,
unless appealed through the appeal procedures included in this chapter.
   D.   Unknown Or Undiscovered Conditions: If, during the actual construction,
alteration, restoration or new construction, on a structure within a designated
preservation district pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness, an
architectural element or feature is discovered which was previously unknown, or
an element or feature which was previously known is found to be absent or
structurally unsound, work shall be stopped and the planning and zoning
commission immediately notified of such condition. If, in the planning and
zoning commission's opinion, the "discovered condition" requires changes to the
overall construction plan pursuant to the certificate of appropriateness, which
do not conflict with either the conditions of the certificate of
appropriateness or the relevant historic, cultural, educational, or
architectural qualities characteristic of the structure, site or district, the
planning and zoning commission may approve the necessary changes and authorize
the work to proceed in writing, without requiring commission review. If
however, the planning and zoning commission determines that the "discovered
condition" would require major changes to the construction plans pursuant to
the certificate of appropriateness, or would not be compatible with either the
conditions of the certificate of appropriateness, or the relevant historic,
cultural, educational, or architectural qualities characteristic of the
structure, site, or district, the applicant shall delay further work and
resubmit the project for the commission's review, including any available
information about the "discovered conditions" and proposed solutions. The
commission, at its next available meeting, will review the conditions and
proposed actions with the applicant, and will either reapprove the certificate
of appropriateness, reapprove with new or amended conditions, deny the
application, or table the application with the applicant's consent for further
information.
   E.   Public Safety Exception: Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
alteration, restoration, reconstruction, removal, construction, or demolition
of any such feature which the building inspector shall certify in writing is
required by the public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition.
Where the public safety and health is in immediate danger, and where no
temporary corrective measures will suffice in protecting the public safety,
such work shall be allowed without a certificate of appropriateness, but
subject to all other appropriate and required permits. Such work shall be
allowed only to the extent necessary to stabilize the structure in question and
notification of such work shall be made to the planning and zoning commission
and historic preservation commission for review at their next earliest meeting.
The commission may require documentation from a licensed structural engineer or
registered architect to determine that the work done was necessary to satisfy
an emergency safety condition. Work done beyond that necessary to correct the
public safety issue shall be subject to all of the rules and regulations of
this chapter. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-6: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Prior to commencement of any work involving a certificate of
appropriateness the owner shall file an application for such a certificate with
the historic preservation commission. The community development department
shall process said applications. The application shall contain:
      1.   The required number (per application) of copies of plans and
exhibits.
      2.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the property
owner(s).
      3.   Accurate site plan, to standard scale, including property lines,
nearest right of way lines, building locations, parking areas, driveways,
sidewalks, landscaping, fences and walls.
      4.   Exterior building elevation plans indicating existing and proposed
conditions. Include specific information regarding materials, architectural
details and colors.
      5.   The location and type of all existing and proposed exterior
lighting.
      6.   The location, dimensions, height, materials, design, method of
attachment and lighting of all existing and proposed signs.
      7.   Indicate existing and proposed landscaping, including trees, shrubs,
ground covers, and finished grades.
      8.   Other information as may be necessary to show proposed action. (Ord.
2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-7: CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
In reviewing an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the historic
preservation commission shall not consider changes to interior spaces or to
architectural features that are not visible from a public street or alley. For
development subject to the historic preservation chapter, the following
criteria shall be reviewed, including appropriateness, compatibility, and
historic design criteria:
   A.   Appropriateness: The appropriateness of a proposed development or
action shall be considered in terms of the purpose and intent of maintaining
and protecting historic resources in the city of Tombstone. The historic
preservation commission's decision shall be based on the following principles,
adhering to the adopted design guidelines:
      1.   Properties which contribute to the character of the historic
preservation district shall be retained, with their historic features altered
as little as possible.
      2.   Alterations to individual historic structures or landmarks shall
conform to the unique and intrinsic character of the original structure itself,
or of historically valid styles which may not reflect the original character of
the structure.
      3.   New construction within a historic preservation district shall be
consistent with the surrounding architecture and the principles stated in
subsections B and C of this section.
      4.   Requests for demolition of historic landmarks shall follow the
procedures contained in this chapter, and all reasonable alternatives shall be
considered and eliminated prior to approval.
   B.   Compatibility: In applying the principle of compatibility, the
commission shall consider the following factors:
      1.   The general design, character and appropriateness to the property of
the proposed alteration or new construction.
      2.   The scale of the proposed alteration or new construction in relation
to the property itself, surrounding properties, and the neighborhood.
      3.   Texture, materials, and color and their relation to similar features
of other properties in the neighborhood.
      4.   Visual compatibility with the surrounding properties, including
proportion of the property's front facade, proportion and arrangement of
windows and other openings within the facade, roof shape, and the rhythm of
spacing of properties on streets, including prevailing setbacks.
      5.   The importance of historic, architectural or other features to the
significance of the property.
   C.   Historic Design Criteria: For alteration, restoration, or
reconstruction of an existing designated historic structure or landmark, or
alteration or new construction within a designated historic preservation
district, the following design criteria shall be considered in addition to the
secretary of the interior's standards for rehabilitation, which are to be
considered guidelines to assist the commission as well as applicants in their
proposals and deliberations. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-8: DESIGN AND SIGNAGE GUIDELINES:
Architectural details, including materials, colors, and textures should be
treated so as to make a landmark, building or structure compatible with its
original architectural style and character or with a historically valid style
and character which may not reflect the original character of the building, and
to preserve and enhance the architectural style and character of a landmark or
district. Exterior of all buildings located within designated historic
preservation districts shall conform to the following design criteria:
   A.   Height Of Structure Shall Meet The Following Standards: Measurements
for height shall be from the finished floor elevation to the highest point on
the main facade, excluding flagpoles.
      1.   The height of one-story structures shall be a minimum of fifteen
feet six inches (15'6") and a maximum of twenty feet (20'). The preferred one-
story height shall be eighteen feet (18').
      2.   Two-story structures shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') and a
maximum of thirty eight feet (38'). The preferred two-story height shall be
thirty feet (30').
      3.   Three (3) or more story structure shall not be allowed unless they
conform to historically documented precedent.
      4.   Alterations or additions to a designated historic structure that are
higher than the tallest comparable feature of the existing structure should be
compatible with the existing architectural style, material and proportion. New
construction may be no higher than otherwise allowed under the zoning
regulations.
      5.   Alterations to the size, scale and mass of a designated historic
structure shall reflect the proportions of the existing structure. The size,
scale, and mass of new structures and additions shall have a proportional
relationship compatible with existing historic structures in the district.
   B.   Width: The width of buildings shall reflect singly, or in combination
with other structures, the regular pattern of thirty foot (30') lot widths.
   C.   Setbacks: Building setbacks shall be as follows:
      1.   Commercial buildings shall be built up to the property lines formed
by street rights of way. Buildings shall form a continuous street frontage.
Residential structures may be developed with continuous frontage and zero
setbacks, or may have up to a fifteen foot (15') yard setback and equally sized
side yards.
      2.   Alterations to a designated historic structure or new construction
should be sensitive to the original front setback of the existing structure
(preferred option), or the prevailing setback of a majority of structures on
the block within the district or neighborhood. Setbacks must otherwise conform
to zoning and landscaping regulations.
   D.   Facade Rhythm: All structures shall show strong patterns of alternating
solid and void in the building facade. A thirty foot (30') bay should be
divided into three (3) or four (4) segments, each containing either a window or
a pair of doors. Openings or segments are to be bound by a pair of columns.
   E.   Facade Proportions: All building facades shall show the geometric
proportions between vertical and horizontal lines of one to one (1:1), two to
three (2:3) and three to five (3:5) (height to width).
   F.   Directional Expression: The thrust of individual facade elements shall
be predominantly vertical. The pattern of repeated bays, detail lines, and
structural shape shall give a definite horizontal thrust to the overall
building elevation.
   G.   Building Materials: The predominant building material used for walls
should have the appearance of adobe. Where historic precedent can be shown,
wood frame, red brick, plastered block may also be used. Exposed roof systems
shall be of wood with sheet metal covering, or shall have the appearance of
wood shingles. Surface materials include both structural and nonstructural
elements and features covering a building or structure, including, but not
limited to, walls, exposed foundations, roofing materials, paving, decking, and
architectural details. Alterations, restorations, and reconstructions involving
surface materials should, if possible, be compatible in terms of type, color,
size and texture of surface materials found on the existing structure where
such material is representative of the historic period and style of the
structure, especially if visible from a public street or alley. Alterations and
new construction within historic preservation districts should utilize surface
materials compatible with adjacent historic landmarks or of landmarks found
within the district and representative of a historic period and style found in
the district.
   H.   Roofs: Roof type shall be typical in shape to roofs of similar historic
structures in the area. Roof alterations to existing structures should be
compatible in configuration, mass, and materials with the existing roof. New
roof construction should, if possible, be compatible with the predominate
historic period of adjacent structures or of other historic structures in the
district.
   I.   Porches And Boardwalks: Where historic precedent can be shown,
buildings may have porches and/or boardwalks. Porches shall be either ten (10)
or twelve feet (12') deep, according to established local historic precedent.
Post height shall be a minimum of eleven feet six inches (11'6") and a maximum
of thirteen feet six inches (13'6"), with twelve feet (12') being the optimum.
Post rhythm may vary with porch length, but usually occurs at eight (8), ten
(10), or twelve foot (12') intervals. The slope of the porch roof shall be a
minimum of two inches (2") in twelve inches (12") (height to width), and a
maximum two and one-half inches (21/2") in ten inches (10"), with the optimum
slope being two inches (2") in ten inches (10").
   J.   Doors: All commercial buildings shall have access from street through
paired doors opening outward. Paired doors are optional on residential
structures. Commercial door heights shall be a minimum of eight feet six inches
(8'6") and a maximum of ten feet (10'), with nine feet (9') as the desired
standard. Doors shall have the appearance of being constructed of wood, painted
or unpainted, and shall reflect the overall design influence of the entire
structure.
   K.   Windows: Windows are to be constructed of several glass panes set in
pairs or triplicate above and/or below each other. Combinations two by two (2 x
2), two by three (2 x 3), three by three (3 x 3), and three by four (3 x 4) may
be used.
Glass panes are not to exceed six (6) square feet in area. The maximum
horizontal and vertical dimension of a pane is not to exceed three feet (3').
A ventilation window shall be located over all commercial building entries.
   L.   Awnings: All awnings shall be of canvas or of canvas appearing material
only. Rigid window shades shall be constructed of simple lumber materials, with
roofing if applicable, as in subsection G of this section; alternatively, rigid
shades may be constructed of appropriate materials indigenous to the Sonoran
high desert, such as ocotillo stalks, saguaro ribs, yucca stems, etc.
   M.   Ramadas, Gazebos And Summerhouses: Ramada frames shall be constructed
of simple lumber materials, left unpainted, or creosoted, or whitewashed.
Ramada roofs shall be constructed of appropriate materials indigenous to the
Sonoran high desert, such as ocotillo stalks, saguaro ribs, yucca stems, etc.
   N.   Detailing: Details shall be made principally of wood. Details shall
reflect both Greek revival and early Victorian influences, with the Greek
revival more pronounced. Interpretations of detailing shall be simple.
   O.   Boardwalks: Public boardwalks will be of solid wooden planks,
consistent with applicable building codes.
   P.   Fences: Fences on public or private property shall be constructed
either of wooden pickets or planks, or of wrought iron, or of ocotillo stalks,
unless documented historic precedent of the individual property clearly
indicated otherwise. Freestanding walls shall be constructed of stuccoed adobe
block, rock, concrete, or native stone. Such walls may also be constructed of
slump block if they are adequately plastered or stuccoed over to appear like
adobe. Any fence within the Historic Preservation District which does not
conform to the above must be hidden from view.
   Q.   Landscaping: Open lots and yards may be left in their natural earthen
state, or enhanced with decomposed granite or gravel, or planted (plants and
ornamental features shall reflect the historic period of the subject
structures). Where possible, planting and other ornamental landscape features
shall reflect the historical period of the subject structure and surrounding
structures in historic preservation districts, and should not obscure or cover
significant architectural details or features.
   R.   Streetscape: The style, location, and character of sidewalks, benches,
bicycle racks, waste receptacles, newspaper boxes, landscape planting areas,
and other similar features should be compatible with the character and style of
the landmark or surrounding Historic Preservation District.
   S.   Colors: Unless clearly documented historic precedent can show
conditions to be otherwise, walls should be preferably a natural earthen color
indigenous to the area, or if plastered should be white. Major woodwork and
details should be left natural or painted white. Accent colors may be used as
trim, but are not to visually detract from the building's overall simplicity.
If colors are applied to walls, they shall be compatible with the color chart
approved by the HPC tints, as below, and shall in any case represent a blend
achievable with the paints that would have been readily available during the
period of historic significance.
In addition to white and black, painted color shall represent as closely as is
practicable.
Representative sets of color chips shall be in the possession of the
commission, the commission inspector and/or the City building inspector, and at
City Hall.
   T.   Hitching Rails: Hitching rails for horses must be of appropriate size.
(Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
   U.   Special Events Banners, Posters, Booths, And Decorations: During
special events sponsored by not-for-profit civic organizations, and recognized
by Mayor and Council, temporary banners, posters, bunting, booths or other
decorations may be erected on private or public property within a Historic
Preservation District for purposes of ad hoc publicity, only if approved in
advance by the Historic Preservation Commission on a standard application form
prior to being erected. Any such temporary banner, poster, bunting, booth or
other decoration must be made of materials having the appearance of materials
used during the period of historic significance. Lettering, pictures, sketches,
logos, or other representations, as well as the shape or form of the
decorations themselves, must not be utterly inappropriate to the period of
historic significance of the relevant Historic Preservation District. The
sponsoring not-for- profit organization shall be held directly accountable for
the compliance of such banners, posters, booths, bunting, or other decorations
with these guidelines.
   V.   Special Holiday Decorations: During generally recognized extended
holiday seasons such as, but not limited to, Christmas and New Year's holidays,
temporary decorations may be erected on public or private property within a
Historic Preservation District, without submission of a standard application
form. Any such temporary celebration decoration must be appropriate to the
period of historic significance of the relevant Historic Preservation District,
and must be removed at the end of the celebration. The specified time to be one
week prior and one week after holiday and/or celebration. Lettering, pictures,
sketches, logos, or other representations, as well as the shape or form of the
decorations themselves, must not be utterly inappropriate to the period of
historic significance of the relevant Historic Preservation District. (Ord.
2018-02, 9-11-2018)
   W.   Utility Services: Utility services within a Historic Preservation
District shall be entirely buried underground, or completely hidden or
camouflaged from view, unless the service is one which would have been
available during the period of historic significance, in which case it may be
visible, if it is visible in the same manner as it would have been during the
period of historic significance. There shall be no electric, neon signs or
wiring to be visible within the Historic Preservation District. Telephone, gas
and electric boxes located in the Historic Preservation District must be
camouflaged.
   X.   Routine, Minor, Or Emergency Maintenance Or Repair: Routine, periodic,
minor, or emergency maintenance or repair work to the exterior of a building
within a Historic Preservation District, other than signage, may be done
concurrently with the submission of a standard application form, rather than
waiting for prior approval of the form, where the total cost of the completed
work is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or in those cases where
delay would endanger the public or entail imminent damage to the building, and
where the following criteria are met:
      1.   The work would otherwise meet all other applicable standards and
criteria in this chapter.
      2.   A standard application form is submitted as soon as possible and in
any event no later than the completion of the work. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
SCHIEFFELIN HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT BUILDING DESIGN GUIDELINES
The characteristics of a typical Tombstone building during the designated
Period of Significance (POS), 1878-1912, are as follows:
1. Building Height: One-story buildings are from 15'6" to 20'0" in height;
optimum one story building height is 18'0". Two story buildings are from 29'0"
to 38'0" in height; optimum height is 30'0".
2. Facade Rhythm: The main building face has an alternating pattern of solids
(structural mass) and voids (openings which permit freedom of view or passage).
A 30-foot bay can be divided into 3 or 4 segments, each containing a window or
pair of doors. Pairs of columns bound openings or segments.
3. Facade Proportions: All building facades can be divided along outstanding
horizontal and vertical lines into rectangular shapes. The shapes have height
to width relationships of 1:1, 2:3, and 3:5.
4. Building Materials: The predominant building material is adobe. Although
interior walls may be plastered, exterior surfaces are either unfinished or
given a dagga coating. Dagga is produced from the same earth used to make the
adobe blocks. Wood frame and fired bricks are also used as building materials
in a few instances. Exposed roof systems are of wood with sheet metal covering.
5. Directional Expression: The appearance of individual facade elements in one-
story buildings is predominantly vertical. The pattern of repeated bays, detail
lines, and structural shape give a definite horizontal thrust to the overall
building elevation.
6. Doors: Doors are from 8'6" to 10'0" in height; 9'0" is the optimum height.
On commercial buildings they are usually paired and open inward from the
street.
7. Porches: Porches are not a part of all buildings. However, when they are
present, the porches are either 10 or 12 feet deep. Post heights are a minimum
of 11'6" and a maximum of 13'6", 12'0" is the optimum height. Post rhythm may
vary with porch length but usually occurs at 8, 10, or 12-foot intervals. The
slope of the porch roof is a minimum of 2 inches in 12 inches and a maximum of
2-1/2 inches in 10 inches with the optimum slope being 2 inches in 10 inches.
8. Windows: Windows are constructed of several glass panes set in pairs or
triplicate above and/or below each other. Combinations of two by two, two by
three, three by three, and three by four are common. The total area of each
pane does not exceed 6 square feet in area. Maximum horizontal or vertical
dimensions of a pane do not exceed 3 feet. Ventilation windows are located over
all commercial building entries.
9. Details: Details are principally made of wood. Details reflect both Greek
revival and early Victorian influences, with Greek revival more pronounced.
Interpretations of detailing are simple.
10. Setbacks: Commercial buildings are built up to the property lines formed by
street rights of way. Residential structures are developed with either
continuous frontage or set back up to 15 feet from the property lines.
11. Building Rhythm: The widths of buildings, either singly or in combination
with other structures, creates a recurring pattern every 30 feet.
12. Building Color: Buildings are either the color of natural materials (adobe,
wood, sheet metal) or take the color of the applied covering (plaster, paint).
The most commonly applied color is white; accent colors are limited in use. At
City Hall, ask for approved Schieffelin Historic Preservation District color
palette guides for further information regarding paint colors.
13. Signs: (see also Sign definitions in section
10-14-5 of the City Code)
a. Signs shall conform to all requirements outlined in the City Zoning
Ordinance. Building permits for signs visible within the Schieffelin Historic
Preservation District shall be subject to review and approval by the Historic
Preservation Commission according to provisions set forth elsewhere in the City
Code. No sign shall be erected within Schieffelin Historic Preservation
District boundaries which has not received an approved Standard Application
Form from the City through the Historic Preservation Commission.
b. All signs within the Schieffelin Historic Preservation District shall
conform either to verifiable historic precedent for a specific property (sign
content, color, wording, lettering, size, and location), consistent with the
purposes and character of the Schieffelin Historic Preservation District, with
the burden of proof of such historic precedent to rest upon the owner of the
historic property or his or her representative, or the following requirements:
1. Free-standing, portable, off-site signs, A-Frames, shall be permitted within
the Historic Preservation District. This includes signs on or in vehicles
except commercial delivery or public conveyances.
2. Sign area sizes:
a. Hanging signs. Maximum area of any sign hanging over boardwalk shall be
eight (8) square feet. No hanging sign shall be more than two (2) feet high.
Projecting signs located above porches or where no porches exist may extend to
no more than four (4) feet from the building front. No more than three (3)
hanging signs may be displayed per business or residence, except that a third
sign may be hung from a building overhang (but not from the boardwalk ceiling)
or porch, if applicable. If the building is on a street corner, an additional
one (1) or two (2) hanging signs may be allowed. Variance on the number of
signs per business or residence may be sought under extraordinary
circumstances, by special application to the Board.
b. Eaves signs. Maximum area of any sign affixed to the eaves of the boardwalk,
facing the street, shall be eight (8) square feet. No eaves- attached sign
shall be more than 2 feet high. No more than two (2) eaves signs may be
displayed per business or residence. If the building is on a street corner, an
additional one (1) or two (2) eaves signs may be allowed. Variance on the
number of signs per business or residence may be sought under extraordinary
circumstances, by special application to the Board.
c. Parapet signs. There is no limit to the maximum area of `parapet signs' -
those up on the building facade above the boardwalk - except that at least two
(2) feet of blank space must remain empty, on both the left and right sides of
the parapet area.
d. Window signs. Maximum area of window signs, painted either on the inside or
outside of the glass, or on panels affixed to the glass, shall be no more than
50% of the area of any glass pane.
3. No sign may extend above the top of the nearest facade, eaves, or fire wall
of a building or structure. Neither will signs cover windows, doors, or
building details.
4. No sign that flashes, blinks, revolves, or is otherwise in motion, or that
employs neon, LED, or similar non-historic glowing technology, shall be
permitted as part of any sign.
5. Signs hung from porches (maximum area of eight [8] square feet) may face
either the street or the boardwalk, but must not extend past the front of the
porch. A clearance of eight (8) feet must be provided between the bottom edge
of the sign and the level of the walkway beneath the sign.
6. All signs will be prepared of materials commonly used in the period of
historic significance, or of reasonable facsimiles thereof, as long as the
substitute material is nearly or fully indistinguishable from material used in
the period of historic significance, when in use.
7. All signs will be prepared of materials commonly used in the period of
historic significance, or of reasonable facsimiles thereof, as long as the
substitute material is nearly or fully indistinguishable from material used in
the period of historic significance, when in use.
8. Lettering on signs will be lettering commonly in use in the period of
historic significance, specified by the Design Guidelines, or verified in
reference manuals suggested by the Commission's Consulting Historian(s), if
necessary. Logos, pictures, sketches or characters shall be consistent with
nineteenth century signage, style, and taste, as delineated by the Design
Guidelines, or as suggested by the Commission's Consulting Historian(s), if
necessary. The burden or proof as to appropriateness or applicability of such
logos, pictures, sketches or characters shall be upon the applicant to be
produced and presented to the Historic Preservation Commission.
9. Colors used in signs will be those colors used in the period of historic
significance, as verified on paint chip cards provided by companies which
manufactured paints during the period in question, and/or by the Design
Guidelines, or by other reference materials suggested by the Commission's
Consulting Historian(s).
c. Removal of Nonconforming Signs; Future Erection: No sign within the scope of
this Chapter or its revision shall be erected in the City after the effective
date thereof, unless it complies with the requirements of this Chapter. Any
sign erected before the effective date of this Chapter and not complying with
its requirements shall be removed when the use or ownership of the premises
changes, and in any case not later than six (6) months from the effective date
of this Chapter, and after that time, no sign shall be erected, maintained, or
used that does not comply with all provisions of this Chapter. (Design &
Signage Guidelines, 1-17-94)
TYPICAL ELEVATIONS SHOWING POS CHARACTERISTICS
Elevation Type "A"
Elevation Type "B"
Elevation Type "C"
Elevation Type "D"
(Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015; amd. Ord. 2018-02, 9-11-2018)
   Y.   Commission Review: All future plans submitted to the Historic
Preservation Commission shall be reviewed by the commission, which shall
approve those in general conformity with the design guidelines or sign
guidelines, or in conformity with documented original historic precedent of a
specific building owned or managed by the applicant, if dating from the period
of historical significance, with the burden of proof of such historic precedent
being upon the applicant. (Acceptable exterior building colors shall be chosen
from color chips supplied by a paint manufacturer, representing paints sold by
that company or predecessor company during the period of historic significance,
or which are acceptable in the professional opinion of the commission's
consulting historian.)
All devices, machines or apparatus not appropriate to the period of historic
significance shall be screened, hidden, or camouflaged as to not be visible to
the public. For the purposes of this chapter, any vending or dispensing
machines shall be considered an advertising device, subject to appropriate
controls listed elsewhere in this Code. Signs or displays may be lit by
electric lighting, but such lighting shall be indirect, with the light source
hidden from public view.
   Z.   Interim Period: In the interim period following the official adoption
of this chapter by the Mayor and Common Council but before the acceptance of
the design guidelines and sign guidelines by the Historic Preservation
Commission, the board shall be guided by the design guidelines and sign
guidelines in this chapter in effect immediately prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   AA.   Completion Of Proposed Action Outlined In Approved Application: All
approved construction, building, rehabilitation, renovation, restoration,
repair, new construction, etc., involving any change to the exterior of any
structure or building, or other structural appurtenance, or to any open space
or yard, or sign erection, now in existence or to be built hereafter within the
Historic Preservation District or within the surrounding buffer zone, shall be
completed according to the following:
      1.   Signs, paint touch up, lighting, repainting, nonstructural repair,
minor rehabilitation, etc., shall be completed within ninety (90) days of
approval by the Historic Preservation Commission.
      2.   All approved major construction, building, rehabilitation,
renovation, restoration, repair, new construction, etc., shall be completed
within one hundred eighty (180) days of approval by the Historic Preservation
Commission. All approved construction, building, rehabilitation, renovation,
restoration, repair, new construction, etc., not completed within these
guidelines must be resubmitted to the Historic Preservation Commission for
explanation, rereview, and reapproval. The parameters of this section are
considered applicable and governing all existing and outstanding applications
approved by the Historic Preservation Commission. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-9: DEMOLITION OR MOVING OF STRUCTURES FROM WITHIN HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DISTRICTS:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this chapter to encourage preservation and
protection of historic structures and significant resources within designated
historic preservation districts. However, it is recognized that there can be
circumstances beyond the control of a property owner which may result in the
necessary demolition of a landmark or structure within a designated district.
These circumstances include a building which constitutes a nonrepairable public
nuisance, which involves a resource whose loss does not adversely affect or may
even benefit the integrity of the district, or which imposes an economic
hardship on the owner. Such hardship shall be determined in accordance with
this chapter. This section is intended to apply to demolition of exterior
buildings or structure elements and shall not include demolition permits issued
for the purpose of interior remodeling or other purposes not applicable to this
chapter.
   B.   Issuance Of Permits: No permit shall be issued by the city, or by the
city building inspector, or by the historic preservation inspector, for
demolition or moving of all or any significant part of a structure or building
which positively contributes to the character of a designated historic
preservation district, before approval first by the commission and then by the
mayor and common council. In making its decision, the commission may be
influenced by the relative historic worth of structure, and by the influence
which it has upon the district. The commission should not approve a demolition
permit for building of exceptional merit and contribution to the district.
   C.   Approval: The commission may approve the demolition or moving permit if
either of the following conditions exists:
      1.   The structure is judged by the city building inspector to be a
hazard to public health or safety, and repairs are impossible or impracticable;
      2.   Retention of such structure would cause significant and undue
financial hardship to the owner, defined as a situation where more funds than
are reasonable would be required to retain the structure, or where moving the
structure would not be feasible or permissible. In such a case, the burden of
proof of significant financial hardship shall rest upon the owner of the
structure in question.
   D.   Time Period: In cases where approval for demolition or moving is
granted for reasons other than public health or safety, such certificate shall
not become effective until one hundred eighty (180) days after application for
the demolition permit. This time period is provided to allow for possible
relief of a hardship, or to cause the property to be transferred to another
owner who will retain the structure.
   E.   Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of property owners within
city historic preservation districts to maintain their historic properties at
such a level that they are neither a public hazard nor infeasible to repair.
   F.   Demolition: When a structure is demolished, it shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to clear the site within ten (10) days,
and to keep it free from debris, trash, and weeds, in compliance with this
code. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-10: MAINTENANCE:
The property owner, occupant, or other person legally responsible for a
historic or nonhistoric structure, site, or landmark governed by this chapter,
shall maintain in good repair such landmark so as to not detract from their
exterior appearance or allow deterioration or decay of the resource.
Deterioration caused by deliberate neglect of maintenance or repairs shall not
be considered valid grounds for the approval of a demolition permit
application. It shall be the duty of the historic preservation commission or
designee to enforce this section. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-11: PUBLIC CONVEYANCES WITHIN HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
No conveyance or vehicle intended for regular commercial use or as a business
endeavor within a historic preservation district, whether for hire or not,
shall be issued a permit or license by the city without prior approval by the
historic preservation commission on a standard application form. For the
purposes of this chapter, any public conveyance or vehicle shall also be deemed
a sign or advertising structure. Animal drawn or antique passenger conveyances
operating commercially within a historic preservation district shall be either
original vehicles manufactured during the period of historic significance, or
else a close replica, as practicably identical as possible to the original.
(Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-12: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation: It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct, structurally
alter, remodel, renovate, relocate, restore, demolish, raze, erect a sign, or
maintain any building, structure, or other appurtenance in a historic
preservation district or historic landmark in violation of the provisions of
this chapter. It shall further be unlawful to operate a business in the
historic preservation district, either on private property or on city property,
except in a permanent building, other than for events sponsored by not for
profit organizations, preauthorized by decision of the mayor and common
council.
   B.   Approval: Once submitted and approved, neither plans nor the
construction work itself may be altered, modified, or changed in any manner,
without a resubmission to the commission for approval. Any work within the
jurisdiction of this chapter noted by the historic preservation inspector to
have been attempted, begun, or completed without prior approval of the
commission, shall be immediately stopped, or, if a sign, taken down or removed,
pending further action by the commission.
   C.   Notice Of Violations:
      1.   Any citizen may file a formal complaint of violation of this chapter
with the office of the city marshal, or with the city building inspector, who
shall then institute any appropriate legal action or proceeding to prevent such
unlawful construction, reconstruction, structural alteration, remodeling,
renovation, restoration, relocation, sign erection, demolition, razing, or
maintenance; to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business, or maintenance in and about such premises, or
effect removal, and each day such a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation in violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a civil violation, and each shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion thereof during which any
violation hereof is committed, continued, or permitted, and upon conviction,
any such violation shall be punishable by a fine of no more than fifty dollars
($50.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-13: STANDARD ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The purpose of these standard administrative procedures is to:
      1.   Establish standardized procedures for the accomplishment of
commission responsibilities as delegated by the mayor and common council to the
HPC.
      2.   Define specific duties and responsibilities to those individuals
entrusted to oversee the creation of, and preserve and maintain, historic
preservation districts within the city of Tombstone.
   B.   These standard administrative procedures are intended to foster a
harmonious working relationship within the historic preservation commission,
and to promote a spirit within the community for self-conformity with
Tombstone's preservation and conservation ordinances.
   C.   The criteria for selection of HPC members will be:
      1.   Commission members should be highly motivated, with integrity and
community reputation above reproach, and respectable city of Tombstone citizens
with a strong dedication to the creation and maintenance of Tombstone historic
preservation districts.
      2.   Members, inspectors, or consultants to be considered for selection
mainly because of technical qualifications, must willingly provide satisfactory
documentation attesting to their special skills.
   D.   The commission shall make an annual report by May 1 of each year to the
mayor and common council, on the state of preservation and/or conservation
within the historic preservation districts of the city of Tombstone, and shall
include in the report a summary of its activities for the past year and a
proposed program for the next year.
   E.   The commission shall have the further responsibility of recommending to
the mayor and common council, planning and zoning commission, and city
departments, the adoption of policies, sources of funds, and designation of
historic preservation districts and historic landmarks that may further the
city's preservation or conservation efforts.
   F.   The chairman shall:
      1.   Call regular and special meetings, and have advance notice posted,
in accordance with the Arizona open meeting law. Regular meetings shall be
scheduled on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month. Special meetings
shall be called only in the event of bona fide, verifiable emergencies, or
demonstrable hardship.
      2.   Conduct the meetings in accordance with "Robert's Rules Of Order".
      3.   Preparation of the meeting agenda with input from other HPC members,
and the commission inspector.
      4.   Appointment of a vice chairman and secretary, and nomination to the
council of the commission inspector, with approval of the HPC voting members.
      5.   Solicitation of highly qualified and motivated citizens for
nomination to the mayor and common council to fill vacancies in the HPC's
members.
      6.   Notification to the city clerk of HPC member resignations in
writing, within five (5) working days after receipt of such resignation.
      7.   Notification to the city clerk in writing of the expiration of
member's terms, not less than thirty (30) days from the termination date.
      8.   Apply for funds from the mayor and common council for expenses to
pay for: experts in technical deliberations, court appearances, and approved
conferences.
      9.   Consultations with the city attorney on HPC matters only after prior
approval by the mayor or the mayor's designee.
      10.   Initiate removal actions with mayor and common council on any HPC
member for just cause. Mayor and common council shall be the final arbiter
regarding the removal of any member.
   G.   The vice chairman shall:
      1.   Assume the duties of the chairman in his or her absence.
      2.   Perform administrative functions as requested, and/or needed, by the
chairman.
   H.   The secretary and assistant secretary shall:
      1.   Maintain accurate HPC minutes of meetings.
      2.   Maintain reference files and copies of pertinent city code books,
ordinances, and city council minutes regarding the HPC's functions and
responsibilities.
      3.   Maintain a duplicate log book on requests for HPC actions and
approvals.
      4.   Verify the technical credentials of HPC nominations for membership
as required for selection based on specific qualifications.
      5.   Notify members of meetings.
      6.   Assume the functions of the chairman and vice chairman in their
absences.
   I.   HPC members shall:
      1.   Render unbiased decisions on the review of applications before the
HPC for approval.
      2.   Report any known, observed, or possible city historic preservation
districts ordinance of code violations to the HPC inspector, in writing.
      3.   Provide input to the HPC meeting agendas.
      4.   Solicit highly qualified citizens to fill HPC vacancies.
      5.   Notify the secretary if unable to attend meetings, or if intending
to be absent from Tombstone for more than one week.
      6.   Notify the secretary of resignation, either orally, or in writing.
      7.   If possible, attend city council and planning and zoning commission
meetings and/or workshops, when their agendas have items of interest to HPC.
      8.   Be suspended from membership on the commission after three (3)
unexpected absences from regular commission meetings, pending further action by
the commission at the very next regular or special meeting, when that person
will either be removed, pursuant to subsection F10 of this section, or returned
to regular member status.
   J.   The inspector shall:
      1.   Conduct unbiased inspections in a timely manner.
      2.   Prepare violation reports in an accurate, unbiased, and factual
manner.
      3.   Together with the chairman and/or vice chairman and other commission
members, conduct quarterly walk-through inspections of the city's historic
preservation districts, and encourage residents and business owners and
managers to maintain an attractive and neat appearance of their properties.
      4.   Deliver approved applications to the city clerk's office within two
(2) working days after HPC approval.
      5.   Assign a log number to each application (e.g., year - month - number
of application: 90-70-10), and provide a copy to the HPC secretary and the city
clerk's office.
      6.   Assign a sequence number to each historic preservation districts
report, and monitor its final description.
      7.   Appear in court as an HPC witness, to testify to the nature of
violations.
   K.   The city clerk shall:
      1.   Forward properly completed HPC standard application forms to the HPC
in a standardized and timely manner.
      2.   Provide new business license applicants with the HPC's advisory
packets.
      3.   Brief new residents and business owners on the special requirements
pertaining to residing and/or conducting a business within the city historic
preservation district.
      4.   Provide copies of all city council meeting minutes regarding the HPC
or the city's historic preservation districts.
      5.   Provide an HPC meeting box at city hall.
      6.   Maintain a log book in city hall as the office record for HPC
applications.
   L.   The city building inspector shall:
      1.   Issue no permit for any work covered by the commission's
jurisdiction in any city historic preservation district without prior HPC
approval.
      2.   Report any known or probable violations of the city's historic
preservation districts ordinances to the commission inspector or chairman as
soon as possible.
   M.   The city marshal shall: Following the due process of compliance
notification outlined in subsection N of this section, issue a citation to the
alleged violator citing him or her into city magistrate court.
   N.   As soon as is reasonably possible following the filing of a complaint
violation with the city marshal or the city clerk's office, the commission
inspector, or other commission member duly delegated by the commission chairman
or vice chairman, shall meet in person informally with the alleged violator,
and attempt to persuade him or her to comply voluntarily with the historic
preservation districts ordinance within forty eight (48) hours, exclusive of
officially recognized state or national holidays.
   O.   If the violation is not corrected within forty eight (48) hours, the
commission inspector shall write a letter on official city letterhead to the
alleged violator, detailing the exact nature of the violation, citing city
code, and the authority of the city under the code to mandate correction of the
violation.
   P.   If the violation is not corrected within five (5) calendar days from
the postmark on the inspector's letter, exclusive of officially recognized
state and national holidays, the inspector shall send a copy of the letter,
clearly marked "Second Notice" to the alleged violator. If the violation is not
corrected within five (5) calendar days of the postmark of the second letter,
exclusive of officially recognized national or state holidays, then all
administrative remedies within city government will be deemed to have been
exhausted, and the city marshal shall cite the alleged violator into city
magistrate court.
   Q.   Minor revisions as they relate only to internal HPC structure may be
made without approval of mayor and council. However, any revision impacting on
any other city offices, commission, boards, ordinances, or codes must have
council approval. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-14: APPEALS PROCESS:
   A.   Appeals from the historic preservation commission's decision must be
made in writing by the party seeking the permit, detailing his or her grounds
for appeal, and asking for a special public hearing by the commission, to deal
only with this particular appeal. Upon receiving notice of such an appeal, the
historic preservation commission shall set a date for a special public hearing,
giving advance notice to all interested parties as required by law. Pending the
appeals process, the original ruling of the commission shall stand. At the
special public hearing, the commission, using the same criteria employed when
the application in question was first submitted, shall consider testimony,
including that of the historic preservation inspector, directed solely to the
point of whether or not the intended structure, alteration, repair, renovation,
remodeling, etc., would or does violate any portion of this chapter. The
historic preservation commission shall either affirm its original decision, or
disaffirm it by a majority vote, and shall render a written opinion in either
case. In the event the historic preservation commission shall decide that a
building permit may be issued, in conformance with this chapter, it will so
recommend to the historic preservation inspector, and to the city building
inspector.
   B.   Appeals from the decision of such a special public hearing of the
historic preservation commission shall be made in writing by the party seeking
the permit, to the board of adjustment and appeals, stating the reason for the
appeal, giving advance notice to all interested parties as required by law.
Pending this appeals process, the ruling of the applicable special public
hearing of the historic preservation inspector and the historic preservation
commission, directed solely to the point of whether or not the intended
structure, alteration, repair, renovation, remodeling, etc., would or does
violate this chapter. The board of adjustment and appeals will either affirm
the decision of the special public hearing of the historic preservation
commission, or disaffirm the decision of the special public hearing of the
historic preservation commission, or disaffirm it by a majority vote, and shall
render a written opinion in either case. In the event the board of adjustment
and appeals shall decide that the permit should be issued, it will enter the
appropriate order directing the historic preservation inspector and city
building inspector to so act.
   C.   Appeals from the decision of such a hearing of the board of adjustment
and appeals shall be made in writing by the party seeking the permit, to the
mayor and common council of the city stating the reason for the appeal. The
mayor and common council shall set a date for a hearing, giving notice to all
interested parties at least one week in advance of said hearing. Pending this
appeals process, the ruling of the applicable hearing of the board of
adjustment and appeals shall stand. At the hearing, the mayor and common
council, using the same criteria employed when the application was first
submitted, shall consider testimony, including that of the historic
preservation inspector and the historic preservation commission, directed
solely to the point of whether or not the intended structure, alteration,
repair, renovation, remodeling, etc., would or does violate this chapter. The
mayor and common council will either affirm the decision of the board of
adjustment and appeals, or disaffirm it by a majority vote, and shall render a
written opinion in either case. In the event the mayor and common council shall
decide that the permit should be issued, they will enter the appropriate order
directing the historic preservation inspector and city building inspector to so
act. (Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
10-19-15: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable and if any section,
sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter shall for any reason be held to be
invalid, illegal or unconstitutional, such decision or determination shall not
affect the validity or legality of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses,
portions or phrases of this chapter, but they shall remain in full force and
effect, it being the legislative intent of the mayor and council that this
chapter shall stand notwithstanding the invalidity of any part thereof. (Ord.
2015-01, 7-14-2015)
CHAPTER 20
HB-3 HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT ZONE
SECTION:
10-20-1: Uses
10-20-2: Building Height
10-20-1: USES:
The certain ordinance entitled "HB-3 historic preservation district zone", as
endorsed by the Tombstone city planning commission, is hereby adopted as "HB-
3 historic preservation district zone" and made a part hereof the same as
though said code was specifically set forth in full herein, and at least one
copy of said code shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be
kept available for public use and inspection, as required by law. (Ord. 2-1988,
8-15-1988; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
   A.   Permitted:
Accessory building or use (not involving open storage), when located on the
same building site.
Light manufacturing or assembling incidental to retail sales from the premises
provided that not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area
occupied by such business is used for manufacturing, processing, assembling,
and treatment, installation and repair products.
The following uses shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building unless otherwise specified and any use operating as a store, shop or
business shall be a retail establishment and all products produced on the
premises shall be sold at retail on the premises:
Antique store.
Apparel store.
Art gallery or store.
Art needlework or hand weaving establishment.
Auto parking lot (within or without a building) subject to provisions of
chapter 13 of this title.
Bakery.
Bank, safe depository or trust company.
Barber or beauty shop.
Bed and breakfast provided an off street parking space is provided for each
unit.
Bicycle shop (no sales or servicing or motor scooters or motorcycles).
Book, newspaper, magazine, stationery, art or drawing supply store.
Catering service.
Church.
Cigar store.
Cleaning, dyeing, laundry, collection agency.
Clinic.
Club or lodge (nonprofit).
Community service agency.
Confectionery store.
Custom dressmaking, millinery, hemstitching or pleating.
Custom weaving or mending.
Dealer in coins, stamps or similar collector's items.
Delicatessen store.
Department store, variety store.
Drugstore.
Dry goods or notions store.
Electrical appliance store.
Florist shop.
Furniture or house furnishing store.
Gift, curio, novelty, toy or hobby shop.
Governmental structure.
Grocery, fruit or vegetable store.
Hardware store.
Hotel and/or motel.
Ice cream store.
Interior decorators.
Jewelry store or jewelry and watch repair.
Leather goods store.
Library, rental or public.
Liquor store for packaged sales only.
Meat, fish or dressed poultry market, provided no live poultry are kept on
premises.
Messenger office.
Multigraphing, mimeographing, duplicating, addressographing.
Museum (indoor and/or outdoor).
Music, phonograph or radio store.
Nursery, flower, plant or tree (within a building or enclosure).
Office: Business, professional or semi-professional.
Photograph studio or photographic supply store.
Postal station.
Pressing establishment.
Refreshment stand.
Religious rescue or mission or temporary revival.
Restaurant, café, lunchroom, tea room.
School, barber or beauty culture.
School, business.
School, dramatic.
School, handicraft, painting or sculpture.
Shoe store or shoe repair shop.
Sporting goods, hunting and fishing equipment store.
Station, bus or stage.
Tailor shop.
Taxicab stand.
Taxidermist.
Theater, except drive-in or outdoor theater.
Water, telephone or telegraph distribution Installation or electrical receiving
or distribution station.
Other similar enterprise or business of the same class, which in the opinion of
the mayor and council, as evidenced by resolution of record, is not more
obnoxious or detrimental to the welfare of the particular community than the
enterprises or businesses above enumerated:
Amusement or recreational enterprise (within a completely enclosed structure)
including billiard or pool hall, dance hall, gymnasium, shooting gallery,
sports arena.
Auditorium or assembly hall.
Bar, cocktail lounge, nightclub, and tavern.
Baths (Turkish, Swedish, steam, etc.).
Blueprinting, photostating.
Carpenter shop.
Club: Athletic, private, social, sport or recreational (operated for profit)
except sports stadium or field.
Engraving, photoengraving, lithographing.
Fortune telling.
Locksmith, tool or cutlery sharpening, lawn mower repairing, fix it or handyman
shop.
Newspaper office.
Pawnshop.
Piano repairing.
Plumbing, retail custom.
Printing or publishing.
School or college (operated as a commercial enterprise) for dancing or musical
instruction.
Transfer or express service.
Upholstery shop.
Wallpaper sales, paper hanging.
The following uses may be conducted within a building and/or in the yard area
on the premises:
Advertising sign or structure subject to chapter 14 of this title.
Auction, public (no animals).
Fair, carnival or tent show for not longer than fifteen (15) days if sufficient
parking area for patrons is provided.
Sale or rental or display of:
Feed (no wholesale).
Hardware (retail or wholesale).
Monuments or tombstone (no wholesale).
Painting equipment or supplies (paint, varnish, etc.).
Secondhand goods: Personal, furniture, books, magazines, but not secondhand
auto parts.
Sheet metal, tinsmith shop, or blacksmith shop.
Sign painting shop.
Tents or awnings.
Trade show, industrial show or exhibition.
Single, duplex, boarding or rooming house. (Ord. 2-1988, 8-15-1988; amd. Ord.
6-1988, 12-19-1988)
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: By conditional permit of the board of
adjustment and appeals:
Fair, carnival, circus or tent show for longer than fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 2-
1988, 8-15-1988)
10-20-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Maximum building height: Two (2) stories within a maximum height of thirty
eight feet (38'). (Ord. 2-1988, 8-15-1988)
CHAPTER 21
LIGHT POLLUTION CODE
SECTION:
10-21-1: Administration
10-21-2: Definitions
10-21-3: General Requirements
10-21-4: Prohibitions
10-21-5: Permanent Exemptions
10-21-6: Procedures For Code Compliance
10-21-7: Temporary Exemptions
10-21-8: Penalties
10-21-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Purpose: This code is intended to restrict the permitted use of outdoor
artificial illuminating devices emitting undesirable rays into the night sky
which have a detrimental effect on astronomical observations.
   B.   Conformance With Applicable Codes: All outdoor artificial illuminating
devices shall be installed in conformance with the provisions of the code, the
Tombstone city zoning regulations, and any building codes which may hereafter
be enacted, as applicable.
Where any provisions of any of the Arizona state statutes, or any of the
federal law, or any companion Tombstone city code comparatively conflicts with
the regulations of this light pollution code, the most restrictive shall
govern.
   C.   Approved Material And Methods Of Installation: The provisions of this
code are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of
installation not specifically prescribed by this code, provided any such
alternate has been approved. The city building inspector may approve any such
alternate provided he finds that the proposed design, material or method:
      1.   Provides approximate equivalence to those specific requirements of
this code, or
      2.   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of the code.
(Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-1982)
10-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
INDIVIDUAL: Any private individual, tenants, lessee, owner, or any commercial
entity including, but not limited to, companies, partnerships, joint ventures
or corporations.
INSTALLED: The initial installation of "outdoor light fixtures" defined herein,
following the effective date of this code but shall not apply to those outdoor
light fixtures installed prior to such date.
OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES: Outdoor artificial illuminating devices, outdoor
fixtures, lamps and other devices, permanent or portable, used for illumination
or advertisement. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, search,
spot, or flood lights for: buildings and structures, recreational areas,
parking lot lighting, landscape lighting, billboards and other signage
(advertising or others), and street lighting. (Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-1982)
10-21-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Shielding: All exterior illuminating devices, except those exempt from
this code, and those regulated by subsection 10-21-4C of this chapter shall be
fully or partially shielded as required in subsection C of this section.
    FULLY SHIELDED: Those fixtures shall be shielded in such a manner that
light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or indirectly
from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane running through the
lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted.
   PARTIALLY SHIELDED: Those fixtures shall be shielded in such a manner that
the bottom edge of the shield is below the plane centerline of the light source
(lamp), minimizing light above the horizontal.
   B.   Filtration:
      1.   Those outdoor light fixtures requiring a filter in subsection C of
this section shall be equipped with a filter whose transmission is less than
five percent (5%) total emergent flux at wavelengths less than three thousand
nine hundred (3,900) angstroms. "Total emergent flux" is defined as that
between three thousand (3,000) and seven thousand (7,000) angstrom units.
      2.   It is recommended that existing mercury vapor fixtures shall be
equipped with a filter whose transmission is less than ten percent (10%) total
emergent flux at wavelengths less than four thousand four hundred (4,400)
angstroms. "Total emergent flux" is defined as that between three thousand
(3,000) and seven thousand (7,000) angstrom units.
      3.   Low pressure sodium lamps are the preferred lamp for minimizing
adverse effects on astronomical observations.
   C.   Requirements For Shielding And Filtering: The requirements for
shielding and filtering light emissions from outdoor light fixtures shall be as
set forth in the following table:
   REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIELDING AND FILTERING
Fixture Lamp Type Shielded Filtered4
Fixture Lamp Type       Shielded  Filtered4
Low pressure sodium1    Partially None
High pressure sodium    Fully     None
Metal halide6           Fully     None
Fluorescent             Fully5   Yes2
Quartz3                 Fully     None
Incandescent                      
Greater than 15OW       Fully     None
Incandescent                      
15OW or less            None      None
Mercury vapor           Fully7    Yes7
Fossil fuel             None      None
Glass tubes filled with           
Neon, Argon, Krypton    None      None
Other sources           As approved by the city building inspector
Notes:
1. This is the preferred light source to minimize undesirable light into the
night sky affecting astronomical observations.
2. Warm white and natural lamps are preferred to minimize detrimental
effects.
3. For the purposes of this code, quartz lamps shall not be considered an
incandescent light source.
4. Most glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosures satisfy these filter
requirements.
5. Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of translucent materials
and wholly illuminated from within do not require shielding.
6. Metal halide display lighting shall not be used for security lighting
after 11:00 P.M. (or after closing hours if before 11:00 P.M.) unless fully
shielded. Metal halide lamps shall be in enclosed luminaries.
7. Recommended for existing fixtures. The installation of mercury vapor
fixtures is prohibited effective 90 days after the date of adoption of this
code.
 
(Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-1982)
10-21-4: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Searchlights: The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes is
prohibited.
   B.   Recreational Facility: No outdoor recreational facility, public or
private, shall be illuminated by nonconforming means after eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. except to conclude a specific recreational or sporting event or any
other activity conducted at a ballpark, outdoor amphitheater, arena, or similar
facility in progress prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   Outdoor Building Or Landscaping Illumination: The unshielded outdoor
illumination of any building, landscaping, signing or other purpose, is
prohibited except with incandescent fixtures less than one hundred fifty (150)
watts.
   D.   Mercury Vapor: The installation of mercury vapor fixtures is prohibited
effective ninety (90) days after the date of adoption of this code. (Ord. 6-81-
82, 5-17-1982)
10-21-5: PERMANENT EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nonconforming Fixtures: All outdoor light fixtures existing and fully
installed prior to the effective date of the code may remain "nonconforming"
indefinitely; provided, however, that no change in use, replacement, structural
alteration, or restoration after abandonment of outdoor light fixtures shall be
made unless it thereafter conforms to the provisions of these regulations.
   B.   Fossil Fuel Light: Light produced directly or indirectly by the
combustion of natural gas or other utility type fossil fuels.
   C.   Federal And State Facilities: Those facilities and lands owned,
operated and protected by the U.S. federal government or the state of Arizona
are exempted by law from all requirements of this code. Voluntary compliance
with the intent of this code at those facilities is encouraged.
   D.   Special Exemption: The building inspector may grant a special exemption
to the requirements of subsection 10-21-3C of this chapter only upon a written
finding that there are extreme geographic or geometric conditions warranting
the exemption and that there are no conforming fixtures that would suffice.
(Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-1982)
10-21-6: PROCEDURES FOR CODE COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Any individual applying for a building or use permit under the
Tombstone city zoning regulations intending to install outdoor lighting
fixtures shall as a part of said application submit evidence that the proposed
work will comply with this code.
      2.   All other individuals intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures
shall submit an application to the Tombstone building inspector providing
evidence that the proposed work will comply with this code.
      3.   Utility companies entering into a duly approved contract with the
city in which they agree to comply with the provisions of these regulations,
shall be exempt from applying for and obtaining a permit for the installation
of outdoor light fixtures, including a residential security lighting.
   B.   Contents Of Application Or Submission: The submission shall contain,
but shall not necessarily be limited to, the following, all or part of which
may be part of or in addition to the information required elsewhere in the
Tombstone city zoning regulations upon application for the required permit:
      1.   Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, other devices, etc.
      2.   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports
and other devices, etc. This description may include, but is not limited to,
manufacturers catalog cuts, and drawings (including sections where required).
The above required plans and description shall be sufficiently complete to
enable the city building inspector to readily determine whether compliance with
the requirements of this code will be secured. If such plans and descriptions
cannot enable this ready determination, by reason of the nature or
configuration of the devices, fixtures or lamps proposed, the applicant shall
submit evidence of compliance by certified test reports as performed by a
recognized testing lab.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon compliance with the requirements of this code,
the city building inspector shall issue a permit for installation of the
outdoor lighting fixtures, to be installed as in the approved application. In
the event the application is part of the building permit application under the
zoning regulations, the issuance of the building permit will be made if the
applicant is in compliance with this code as well as the other requirements for
issuance under the zoning regulations. Appeal procedures of the zoning
regulations for decisions of the city building inspector shall apply.
   D.   Amendment To Permit: Should the applicant desire to substitute outdoor
light fixtures or lamps after a permit has been issued, the applicant must
submit all changes to the city building inspector for approval, with adequate
information to assure compliance with this code. (Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-1982)
10-21-7: TEMPORARY EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Request For Temporary Exemptions: Any "individual" as defined herein
may submit a written request on a form prepared by the planning and zoning
commission to the city building inspector for a temporary exemption to the
requirements of this code, such exemption to be valid for thirty (30) days,
renewable at the discretion of the city building inspector.
The request for temporary exemption shall contain minimally the following
listed information:
      1.   Specific exemptions requested.
      2.   Type and use of exterior light involved.
      3.   Duration of time for requested exemption.
      4.   Type of lamp and calculated lumens.
      5.   Total wattage of lamp or lamps.
      6.   Proposed location of exterior light.
      7.   Previous temporary exemptions, if any.
      8.   Physical size of exterior light and type of shielding provided.
In addition to the above data, the city building inspector may request any
additional information which would enable him to make a reasonable evaluation
of the request for temporary exemption.
   B.   Appeal For Temporary Exemption: The city building inspector, within
five (5) days from the date of the properly completed request for temporary
exemption, shall approve or reject in writing the request. If rejected, the
individual making the request shall have the right of appeal to the appropriate
board of adjustment for review pursuant to the procedures applicable to any
other appeal of a decision of the city building inspector. (Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-
1982)
10-21-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this code shall be deemed guilty
of a class 2 misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which a
violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed, continued or
permitted and upon conviction of any such violation such person, firm or
corporation shall be punished as prescribed by the Arizona Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 6-81-82, 5-17-1982)
CHAPTER 22
NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION
SECTION:
10-22-1: Short Title
10-22-2: General Purpose
10-22-3: Definitions
10-22-4: Vacant Building Registration
10-22-5: Vacant Building Fees
10-22-6: Exemptions
10-22-7: Inspections
10-22-8: Notifications
10-22-9: Penalties
10-22-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be referred to as the TOMBSTONE NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-2: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
of the residents and visitors to the city of Tombstone, to preserve property
values overall, and to provide special attention to the condition of the
Schieffelin historic district. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-3: DEFINITIONS:
CODE VIOLATIONS: Violations of any code adopted and/or enforced by the city.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The building inspector/zoning officer of the city.
VACANT BUILDING: A building or portion of a building which is:
   A.   Unoccupied and unsecured.
   B.   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means.
   C.   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure.
   D.   Unoccupied and condemned.
   E.   Unoccupied and has multiple housing or building code violations.
   F.   Condemned and illegally occupied.
   G.   Unoccupied for a period of time more than three hundred sixty five
(365) days.
   H.   Within the Schieffelin historic district and unoccupied for a period of
time more than ninety (90) days. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-4: VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION:
   A.   The owner shall register with the enforcement officer not later than
thirty (30) days after any building in the city becomes vacant, as defined by
section
10-22-3 of this chapter.
   B.   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the
enforcement officer and shall include the following information supplied by the
owner:
      1.   A description of the premises.
      2.   The names and addresses of the owner or owners.
      3.   The names and addresses of all known lien holders, and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building.
      4.   The period of time the building is expected to remain vacant; and a
plan and timetable for returning the building to appropriate occupancy or use
and/or for demolition of the building.
   C.   The owner shall submit a plan and timetable which must meet the
approval of the enforcement officer. The enforcement officer shall require
completion of the plan within a reasonable period of time, up to three hundred
sixty five (365) days. Any repairs, improvements or alterations to the property
must comply with any applicable housing or building codes.
   D.   All applicable laws and codes shall be complied with by the owner. The
owner shall notify the enforcement officer of any changes in information
supplied as part of the vacant building registration within thirty (30) days of
the change. If the plan or timetable for the vacant building is revised in any
way, the revision must meet the approval of the enforcement officer.
   E.   The owner and subsequent owners shall keep the building secured and
safe and the building and grounds properly maintained until the rehabilitation
or demolition has been completed. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-5: VACANT BUILDING FEES:
   A.   The owner of a vacant building shall pay an annual registration fee.
The first year registration fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). The
second year registration fee shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). The third
and each subsequent year registration fee shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   B.   The first annual fee shall be paid not later than thirty (30) days
after the building becomes vacant.
   C.   The fee shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any building
permits, with the exception of a demolition permit.
   D.   All delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any transfers
of ownership interest in any vacant property. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   A building which has suffered fire damage shall be exempt from the
registration requirement for a period of ninety (90) days after the date of the
fire if the property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the
enforcement officer. This request shall include the following information
supplied by the owner:
      1.   A description of the premises.
      2.   The names and addresses of the owner or owners.
      3.   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedited manner. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-7: INSPECTIONS:
The enforcement officer shall inspect any premises in the city for the purpose
of enforcing and assuring compliance with the provisions of this title. Upon
the request of the enforcement officer, an owner shall provide access to all
interior portions of an unoccupied building in order to permit a complete
inspection. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-8: NOTIFICATIONS:
Once every three (3) months the enforcement officer shall send to the city
council a list of all vacant buildings which have become known to the
enforcement officer during the preceding three (3) months, as well as a list of
all previously declared vacant buildings which are no longer subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-2007)
10-22-9: PENALTIES:
Any person who violated the provisions of this chapter or providing false
information to the enforcement officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each subsequent notice
of violation shall be considered an additional offense. (Ord. 2007-16, 5-8-
2007)
CHAPTER 23
WESTERN URBAN RANCH ZONE
SECTION:
10-23-1: Purpose
10-23-2: Division Of WUR Zoning Districts
10-23-3: Uses Permitted
10-23-4: Maximum Building Height
10-23-5: Minimum Lot Area
10-23-6: Property Development Standards
10-23-7: Maximum Coverage Of Lot For All Buildings
10-23-8: Nonresidential Accessory Buildings
10-23-1: PURPOSE:
Western urban ranch (WUR) zoning districts are established to achieve the
following purposes:
   A.   To stabilize and protect single household residential development.
   B.   To provide small ranch and farm areas within the city in order to
protect and conserve suburban ranch uses established in natural areas within
the urban area. The regulations of this district are designed to protect,
stabilize and enhance the development of agricultural resources and to prohibit
activities which would adversely affect the open space natural characteristics
of this district.
   C.   To protect residential properties from noise, direct illumination,
unsightliness, odors, pests, smoke, and other incompatible or nuisance type
conditions.
   D.   To limit the site and maximum density of the property use. (Ord. 2008-
07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-2: DIVISION OF WUR ZONING DISTRICTS:
The WUR zoning districts shall be divided into the following density districts
subject to the regulations herein:
WUR-1 One acre lots
WUR-2 Two acre lots
WUR-3 Three acre lots
WUR-4 Four acre lots
WUR-5 Eight acre lots
(Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-3: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in all WUR zoning districts, provided
that they conform to the applicable site development standards set forth below
and meet any other requirements for such uses found in these regulations, such
as off site road and drainage improvements:
A trailer or mobile home for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days during
construction of a residence on the same premises, which period may be extended
for an additional period of sixty (60) days upon application to the building
inspector.
Accessory building or use:
   A.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) are allowed as follows:
      1. Storage of no more than one RV on a parcel (no permit is required).
      2. Temporary occupancy of one RV in conjunction with the construction of
a nonresidential or residential permitted principal use (a temporary use permit
is required).
      3. Temporary occupancy of one RV in conjunction with a permitted
principal use up to six (6) months in a calendar year (a temporary use permit
is required; stays of 3 consecutive days or less do not require a permit).
   B.   Large animals shall be allowed on four (4) acres or more as long as the
number does not constitute a health hazard and the property owner keeps pens
and corrals clean, and complies with all state, county, and city regulations
concerning large animals in residential areas.
Agriculture and horticulture. Flower and vegetable gardening, nursery or
greenhouse.
Commercial riding stables or riding schools subject to the following:
   A.   Minimum size of site: Eight (8) acres.
   B.   Horses may be kept or stabled for the convenience of guests, but no
stable, barn, corral, animal shed or shelter shall be erected or maintained
closer than seventy five feet (75') to any property line.
Farming for personal use, including all types of agriculture and horticulture,
such as flower and vegetable gardening, nursery or greenhouse, field crops,
berry and bush crops, tree crops, and orchards and the storage of their
products, and used only for propagation and culture and not for retail sale.
Guest ranches. Such use may include the following accessory uses:
   A.   Minimum size of site: Eight (8) acres.
   B.   Horses may be kept or stabled for the convenience of guests, but no
stable, barn, corral, animal shed or shelter shall be erected or maintained
closer than seventy five feet (75') to any property line.
One-family dwelling, expressly forbidding trailers, mobile homes, modular
homes, and manufactured homes.
The keeping of horses, mules, or similar animals. The number of such livestock
permitted shall be calculated on the basis of one horse or similar animal for
each fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of net lot area after deducting one-
half (1/2) acre for the home site. Fractions greater than five-tenths (5/10) of
the whole number shall be rounded up to the next whole number. No stable, barn,
corral, animal shed or shelter shall be erected or maintained closer than
seventy five feet (75') to any property line. The above described animals shall
be allowed on four (4) acres or more as long as the number does not constitute
a health hazard and the property owner keeps pens and corrals clean, and
complies with all state, county, and city regulations concerning large animals
in residential areas.
Transitional use where side of lot abuts a business or industrial zone provided
such use extends not more than one hundred twenty feet (120') or two (2) lots,
which is the lesser, from the zone boundary.
If animals other than small pets are kept on the property, permits shall be
requested and the property holder shall comply with all state, county, and
local laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the minimum setbacks
from adjacent property owners. (Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-4: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-5: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
WUR-1: One acre
WUR-2: Two (2) acres
WUR-3: Three (3) acres
WUR-4: Four (4) acres
WUR-5: Eight (8) acres (Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-6: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Minimum setbacks from the property line for the primary dwelling.
   A.   Lot width: Minimum two hundred feet (200').
   B.   Front yard: Minimum fifty feet (50').
   C.   Side yard: Minimum forty feet (40').
   D.   Rear yard: Minimum fifty feet (50').
   E.   If large animals are kept on the property, the landowner or occupant
must comply with all other provisions of this chapter and cannot board a large
animal any closer to a residential dwelling on the lot than the setbacks
described in this section. (Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-7: MAXIMUM COVERAGE OF LOT FOR ALL BUILDINGS:
Forty percent (40%) of total lot area. (Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
10-23-8: NONRESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
A nonresidential accessory structure or building includes barns or animal
shelters or structures, but does not include a detached garage, which is
necessary for the dwelling unit, and may be erected on a parcel if it meets the
following requirements:
   A.   Maximum Height: Thirty feet (30') above grade.
   B.   Maximum Yard Coverage: Thirty five percent (35%) of the required rear
yard.
   C.   Location Restriction: No accessory building shall be erected in any
minimum required front or side yard, except as otherwise provided in this code.
   D.   Setback Requirements: Accessory buildings shall be set back from the
side or the rear lot line a distance not less than three feet (3'), except,
where the lot is part of a master plan approved by the city as subdivision:
      1.   For a lot having its rear lot line contiguous with any street or
alley that is contained in a master plan.
      2.   For a corner lot abutting a key lot and not separated therefrom by
an alley, any accessory building shall be set back from the rear lot line a
distance not less than the width of the least required side yard applicable to
the main building.
      3.   For a corner lot, the street side setback shall be the same as for
the main building.
      4.   No livestock stable, corral, barn, animal shed or shelter shall be
erected or maintained closer than seventy five feet (75') to any property line.
(Ord. 2008-07, 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 24
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ZONING
SECTION:
10-24-1: Limited Purpose
10-24-2: Basic Use Provisions
10-24-3: Application
10-24-4: Review
10-24-5: Approval
10-24-6: Use Permit Criteria
10-24-7: Separation Requirements
10-24-8: Issuance Of Use Permit
10-24-9: Nontransferability Of Use Permit
10-24-10: Permit Renewal
10-24-11: Revocation Or Suspension
10-24-1: LIMITED PURPOSE:
The operation of a medical marijuana facility, a medical marijuana cultivation
site, or an infusion food establishment shall only be allowed in accordance
with the provisions, procedures and standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord.
2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-2: BASIC USE PROVISIONS:
   A.   The operation of a medical marijuana facility, a medical marijuana
cultivation site, or an infusion food establishment is not allowed by right in
any zoning district.
   B.   The operation of a medical marijuana facility is allowed only in an I-
1 district in strict accordance with titles 3 and 4 of this code, with this
section and only upon obtaining a special use permit for such use. No medical
marijuana facility may be established or maintained within the Tombstone
historic preservation district. Additionally, no sales of marijuana or product
containing THC or intended for the use of marijuana shall be sold, transferred
or exchanged within the Tombstone historic preservation district.
   C.   The operation of a medical marijuana cultivation site or an infusion
food establishment is allowed only in an I-1 district not located in the
Tombstone historic preservation district in strict accordance with this section
and titles 3 and 4 of this code and only upon obtaining a special use permit
for such use. No medical marijuana cultivation site or an infusion food
establishment may be established or maintained within the Tombstone historic
preservation district. Additionally, no sales of marijuana or product
containing THC or intended for the use of marijuana shall be sold, transferred
or exchanged within the Tombstone historic preservation district. (Ord. 2015-
02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   The application procedures for a special use permit to operate a
medical marijuana facility, a medical marijuana cultivation site, or an
infusion food establishment at a specified premises shall be the same as the
application procedures for general use permits, except that in addition to any
other required submittals, an applicant shall provide:
      1.   The location of the premises at which the medical marijuana
facility, the medical marijuana cultivation site, or infusion food
establishment will be operated.
      2.   The identity of the medical marijuana dispensary that will operate
the medical marijuana facility or the medical marijuana cultivation site, and,
for an infusion food establishment, the identity of the operator of the
establishment and that includes all of the following information:
         a.   If the application is by an agent for the owner the authorization
must include an explicit acknowledgment from the owner that the owner knows
that the proposed use of the property is as a medical marijuana dispensary.
         b.   The legal name of the medical marijuana dispensary.
         c.   The name, address and date of birth of each principal officer and
board member of the nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary and the name,
address and date of birth of each medical marijuana dispensary agent.
         d.   A copy of the operating procedures adopted in compliance with
Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2804(B)(1)(c).
         e.   A notarized certification that none of the principal officers or
board members has been convicted of one of the following offenses:
            (1)   A violent crime as defined in Arizona Revised Statutes
section 13-901.03(B) that was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where
the person was convicted;
            (2)   A violation of state or federal controlled substance law that
was classified as a felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted
including an offense for which the sentence, any term of probation,
incarceration or supervised release, was completed within the ten (10) years
prior to applying for the application for the dispensary or an offense
involving conduct that would be immune from arrest, prosecution or penalty
under Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2811 except that the conduct occurred
before the effective date of that statute or was prosecuted by an authority
other than the state of Arizona.
         f.   A notarized certification that none of the principal officers or
board members has served as a principal officer or board member for a
registered nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary that has had its registration
certificate revoked.
         g.   A statement acknowledging that the dispensary shall not make off
site deliveries or sales.
         h.   A statement acknowledging that no products or materials, other
than medical marijuana related goods or products in conformity with state law
shall be sold on the premises and no person shall be permitted to consume
marijuana or any illegal substance or beverage on the premises.
      3.   If the premises identified in the application is not owned by the
medical marijuana dispensary making application for the use permit, a written
statement signed by the property owner authorizing the applicant to apply for
the use permit for the premises and consenting to the use being requested in
the application.
      4.   A site plan for the property on which the premises is located
showing lot dimensions with front, sides and rear setbacks, and, where
applicable, its location within the larger development in which the property
may be situated.
      5.   An accurate, to scale, floor plan clearly showing the configuration
of the premises and stating the total floor space of the premises or portion
thereof to be used for the purpose for which the use permit is requested. In
addition to any other information, the floor plan shall specifically identify
and provide as applicable: a) the location of the enclosed, locked facility in
which cultivation or storage of medical marijuana will take place; b) the total
floor space for the enclosed, locked facility; c) the location within the
premises where infusion will take place; d) all entrances and exits to and from
the premises, indicating which such entrances are secured and which, if any,
are not secured; e) the location of any windows from which a member of the
public can view activities occurring inside the premises; f) any additional
security measures or devices to be installed in or upon the premises,
including, without limitation, any on site alarm system or security lighting;
and g) additional protections, if any, against medical marijuana diversion and
theft. The floor plan shall comply with the definition of "enclosed locked
facility" contained in Arizona Revised Statutes section 36-2801(6) and will be
conducted completely within an enclosed, locked building.
      6.   The applicant shall be required to post a copy of the entire
application in a newspaper of local weekly distribution for a period not less
than four (4) consecutive weeks at the applicant's sole expense.
      7.   The applicant shall be required to pay an application fee to the
city of Tombstone in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or such
other amount as the city council, in its discretion deems appropriate.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application and fee, the office of city clerk shall
provide written notice via the United States postal service to all residents
and businesses within the ward of the proposed use, as well as the council
member representing the ward. Any resident of Tombstone or licensed business
within Tombstone may provide statements of approval or disapproval to the board
of adjustment and appeals, who shall provide copies of those statements to all
members of the board of adjustment and appeals. The board of adjustment and
appeals shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with section
10-16-3 of this title.
   C.   In the event the board of adjustment and appeals finds conformity to
the standard requirements established in this chapter as well as rules and
regulations established by the state of Arizona not otherwise stated herein,
and the board finds that detriment or injury to the neighborhood, businesses or
tourist industry will not result from the granting of a permit as applied for,
it may approve or conditionally approve the issuance of said permit and
transmit notice of its action to the building inspector. A report of its
findings and recommendations and any conditions imposed or required shall also
be submitted promptly to the planning and zoning commission and the city
council.
   D.   In the event the board of adjustment and appeals disapproves an
application for permit under this chapter, the board shall state with
specificity in its minutes why it has decided to disapprove the application and
provide the applicant thirty (30) days to remedy any concerns of the board. No
permit shall be issued pending further action thereon by an appeal to the city
council within thirty (30) days from the date a final disapproval is officially
entered on the minutes of the board. If city council shall overrule the action
of the board, then the building inspector shall issue the request permit
without further action of the board, unless the city council orders the board
to hold a further hearing to permit the board to fix conditions or require
guarantees, as set forth in sections
10-16-7 and
10-16-8 of this title.
   E.   Prior to the city council taking any action on a permit under this
chapter, the city council shall allow any member of the public body or licensed
local business potentially affected to address the city council on the
application at a public meeting.
   F.   If the city council declines to approve the permit, the applicant may
seek appellate relief through the Cochise County superior court, but must do so
within thirty (30) days of city council action declining to issue a permit. If
said court shall overrule the action of the city council, then the building
inspector shall issue the request permit without further action of the council
or board of adjustment and appeals, unless the court orders the board of
adjustment and appeals to hold a further hearing to permit the board to fix
conditions or require guarantees, as set forth in sections
10-16-7 and
10-16-8 of this title. In that situation, the same process contained in this
subsection shall be followed. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-4: REVIEW:
The review and approval of an application for a use permit to operate a medical
marijuana facility, a medical marijuana cultivation site, or an infusion food
establishment shall consider all relevant land use factors, including, but not
limited to, the use permit criteria and location requirements stated in
sections
10-24-6 and
10-24-7 of this chapter and other parts of this code addressing the following:
   A.   Consistency with the comprehensive plan.
   B.   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures, pedestrian and
vehicular circulation with particular reference to fire protection.
   C.   Off street parking and loading.
   D.   General compatibility of use with adjacent property and property in the
district.
   E.   Impact on public services, including schools, recreation, and
utilities.
   F.   Screening and buffering of uses.
   G.   Signage.
   H.   Exterior lighting with reference to adjacent properties.
   I.   Stormwater retention and landscaping.
   J.   Site and building design for conformance with the comprehensive plan
and policies and city standards.
   K.   Fire and police safety and enforcement. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-5: APPROVAL:
   A.   The board of adjustment and review may recommend to the city council
approval of the application for a use permit under this chapter based upon the
following findings:
      1.   Written confirmation from the board of adjustment and appeals
stating the request complies with all the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   A recommendation from the board of adjustment and appeals for
approval.
      3.   The city council finds after a public hearing and comment that the
request shall not be detrimental to persons residing or working in the
vicinity, to adjacent property, to the neighborhood or to the public welfare in
general, to Tombstone's tourist industry or to any other established business
in Tombstone, and that the use will be in full conformity with the conditions,
requirement or standards prescribed by this code, the state of Arizona and as
otherwise determined by the city council. The city council may decline to
approve a medical marijuana dispensary at a site if substantial evidence is
presented that locating the dispensary at the proposed site will negatively
impact neighboring property values or established businesses or if substantial
evidence is presented that shows that locating the dispensary at the proposed
site will create an unreasonable risk to the health, safety or general welfare
in the area.
   B.   If the city council declines to approve the permit it will either adopt
the findings of the board of adjustment and appeals into its minutes or state
with specificity within its minutes all additional findings upon which the
decision was based. A verbatim record of the public meeting shall be made
available to the applicant at no charge in the event of an appeal to the
Cochise County superior court. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-6: USE PERMIT CRITERIA:
The premises in or upon which shall be operated a medical marijuana facility, a
medical marijuana cultivation site or an infusion food establishment shall:
   A.   Be located in a permanent building and shall not be located in a
temporary structure, trailer, cargo container, motor vehicle, or other similar
nonpermanent enclosure.
   B.   Not be larger than two thousand five hundred (2,500) gross square feet
for a medical marijuana facility and three thousand (3,000) gross square feet
for a medical marijuana cultivation site. The secure storage area shall not
exceed five hundred (500) square feet in a medical marijuana facility and one
thousand (1,000) square feet in a medical marijuana cultivation site.
   C.   Be operated only by a medical marijuana dispensary or, in the case of
an infusion food establishment, a person or entity authorized by state law to
infuse edible food products, who does:
      1.   Comply with all registration and recordkeeping required by the city
of Tombstone, Cochise County and Arizona law.
      2.   Obtain, maintain and display a valid city of Tombstone business
registration or license as may be required by this code.
      3.   Not provide off site deliveries of medical marijuana to a
cardholder.
      4.   Not sell merchandise other than medical marijuana and related
supplies.
      5.   Not have or operate drive-through facilities or takeout windows.
      6.   Not emit dust, fumes, vapors or odors into the environment.
      7.   Prohibit consumption of medical marijuana on the premises.
      8.   Not permit outdoor seating anywhere on the premises. Where the
premises is located within a larger commercial or industrial development having
walkways or other common areas containing already existing outdoor seating
required as a condition of the zoning for the development, then no new outdoor
seating shall be located immediately adjacent to the premises.
      9.   Allow annual fire inspections pursuant to this code.
      10.   Have operating hours not earlier than nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
not later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-7: SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS:
A medical marijuana facility or a medical marijuana cultivation site shall be
located a minimum distance from the uses set forth in table (1), "Medical
Marijuana Facilities Location Requirements", of this section. Measurements
shall be made in a straight line in any direction from the closest exterior
wall of the medical marijuana facility or medical marijuana cultivation site to
the nearest property line of any parcel containing uses identified in the
table. No separation is required when a medical marijuana facility or a medical
marijuana cultivation site is separated from another such facility or site by a
freeway.
   TABLE (1)
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
   FACILITIES LOCATION REQUIREMENTS
Use Or Use Classification Separation Requirement
                          (Feet)
Use Or Use Classification                              Separation Requirement
                                                       (Feet)
Another medical marijuana facility or cultivation site 5,280
Charter schools, public schools or private schools     1,320
Daycare center, public or private                      1,320
Hospitals, public or private                           1,320
Place of worship                                       1,320
Public library                                         1,320
Public or private park                                 1,320
Residential zoning district boundary                   350
 
Note: As part of the use permit review process, the city council may allow
minor deviations to the separation requirements if council finds that, under
the particular circumstances, the subject premises is so located as to satisfy
the intent of the separation requirements. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-8: ISSUANCE OF USE PERMIT:
   A.   A use permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period of
one year from the date of city council approval of the use permit application,
except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   B.   A use permit issued under this chapter shall be deemed void and to have
automatically expired if the permitted use is not substantially commenced by
the permit holder or substantial construction has not taken place within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the date of city council approval. The building
inspector shall determine whether there is substantial commencement.
   C.   The validity of a use permit under this chapter is further conditioned
upon the permit holder and the permitted premises being at all times in
compliance with state laws regulating medical marijuana facilities, medical
marijuana cultivation sites and infusion food establishments as well as, in
compliance with applicable city building codes, development standards and other
land use regulations stated in the zoning code or any other ordinance or code
adopted by the city of Tombstone. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF USE PERMIT:
A use permit issued under this chapter is not transferable to any other
location or premises, nor is it valid for any other use or business associated
with a medical marijuana dispensary that is not specifically identified in the
use permit. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-10: PERMIT RENEWAL:
   A.   A use permit issued under this chapter may be renewed by filing an
application for renewal on a form provided by the zoning officer. The
application for renewal shall be received by the zoning officer not less than
seventy (70) days before the expiration of the permit. When the application for
renewal is received less than seventy (70) days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the use permit shall not be delayed, postponed or otherwise
affected.
   B.   An application for renewal shall be considered following the same
procedures as an original application. The application for renewal may be
denied for any reason that an original application may be denied or revoked.
   C.   A medical marijuana facility or medical marijuana cultivation site
lawfully operating is not rendered in violation of the distance requirements
set forth in section
10-24-7, table (1) of this chapter if, subsequent to the initial granting of
the use permit, any of the uses identified in section
10-24-7, table (1) of this chapter are constructed or located within the
required separation area. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid
use permit and does not apply when an application for a use permit is submitted
after a use permit has expired or has been revoked. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
10-24-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   In addition to any other penalties or remedies provided by this title,
the zoning officer may suspend or revoke a use permit upon a finding of:
      1.   A material change in the permitted use or the conditions prescribed
upon issuance of the use permit has occurred without an amendment to the use
permit having been obtained; or
      2.   Material noncompliance with the conditions prescribed upon issuance
of the use permit or with the representations made by the permit holder in
connection with the application for the use permit as to the nature of the
conditional use to be conducted; or
      3.   Operation of the permitted use in such a manner as to cause a
substantial detrimental impact on neighboring persons or property.
      4.   To suspend or revoke a use permit, the zoning officer shall deliver
or mail by certified mail to the address indicated on the use permit
application and, if different from application address, the address of the
property subject to the use permit, a written notice that the use permit is
suspended or revoked and which states the grounds therefor.
      5.   Upon written request received by the zoning officer within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice by the permit holder, or any person whose use of
the permitted property will be adversely affected by the suspension or
revocation, the matter will be referred to the board of adjustment and appeals
on an appeal pursuant to the appeal procedures provided under section
3-1-11 of this code. If an appeal is not received within ten (10) days of the
date of the notice, the suspension or revocation shall take effect on the
eleventh day after the date of the notice.
      6.   The decision of the board of adjustment and appeals may be appealed
as provided in section
3-1-11 of this code. (Ord. 2015-02, 7-14-2015)
TITLE 11
AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 1
AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Creation
11-1-2: Ambulance Advisory Board Created
11-1-3: Duties Of Ambulance Advisory Board
11-1-4: Office Of the Ambulance Director Created
11-1-5: Duties Of Ambulance Director
11-1-6: Office Of Assistant Ambulance Director Created
11-1-7: Duties Of Assistant Ambulance Director
11-1-8: Department Members
11-1-9: Salaries
11-1-10: Qualifications
11-1-11: Responsibilities
11-1-12: False Representations Of An Ambulance Department Member
11-1-13: Records And Reports
11-1-14: Rules And Regulations
11-1-1: CREATION:
There shall be and hereby is created the ambulance department of the city of
Tombstone (hereinafter referred to as the "department"). Members of the
department shall include the ambulance advisory board, the ambulance director,
the assistant ambulance director and such other and additional members as may
be qualified by the Arizona department of health services, certified by the
Arizona corporation commission and appointed by the mayor and common council.
(Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-2: AMBULANCE ADVISORY BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the ambulance advisory board whose members shall
consist of individuals who have a basic knowledge and understanding of the laws
and regulations governing ambulance service in the state of Arizona. Said
members shall be appointed by the mayor and common council. The ambulance
advisory board is directly responsible to the mayor and common council. (Ord.
3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-3: DUTIES OF AMBULANCE ADVISORY BOARD:
The duties of the ambulance advisory board are to: a) recommend policies for
the department of the mayor and common council, b) review policies with the
ambulance director, and c) report to the mayor and common council. (Ord. 3-81-
82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-4: OFFICE OF THE AMBULANCE DIRECTOR CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of the ambulance director of the ambulance
department. Said director shall serve under the direction and supervision of
the mayor and common council. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-5: DUTIES OF AMBULANCE DIRECTOR:
The ambulance director shall: a) exercise supervisory jurisdiction and
authority to the approval of the mayor and common council, b) be responsible
for all properties assigned to the ambulance department, and c) properly
complete and forward all reports as required by the mayor and common council or
by county, state or federal governments. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-6: OFFICE OF ASSISTANT AMBULANCE DIRECTOR CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of assistant ambulance director of the
ambulance department, said assistant director shall serve under the direction
and supervision of the ambulance director, and ultimately under the direction
and supervision of the mayor and common council. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-7: DUTIES OF ASSISTANT AMBULANCE DIRECTOR:
The assistant ambulance director shall aid the ambulance director in fulfilling
his duties. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-8: DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
Members of the department shall include the ambulance director, assistant
ambulance director and such deputies and special deputies as may be appointed
by the mayor and common council from time to time. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-9: SALARIES:
Salaries of the members of the department shall be such sums as designated by
the mayor and common council from time to time. All full time employees of the
department are to be considered salaried employees. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-10: QUALIFICATIONS:
The director of ambulance department and the assistant director of the
ambulance department shall be individuals who are qualified electors of the
city of Tombstone, shall possess a valid driver's license and be a certified
attendant, as defined under Arizona law. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-11: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The department shall provide ambulance service in accordance with the Arizona
Revised Statutes, the city charter, this code and any and all rules and
regulations that the mayor and common council may adopt from time to time. In
the event ambulance service is delegated to an outside authority, the
department shall defer to the authority, but shall cooperate by exercising it
authority when requested to do so. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-12: FALSE REPRESENTATIONS OF AN AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT MEMBER:
Any person who shall falsely represent himself as a department member or any
deputy thereof of this city, and shall provide or attempt to provide ambulance
service, under such representation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by not less than a twenty five dollar ($25.00), nor more than a
three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or three (3) consecutive months in jail,
or both. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-13: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The ambulance director shall maintain and submit such records and reports as
are requested by the mayor and common council or as are required by federal,
state or county authorities. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
11-1-14: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The mayor and common council shall have the power and authority to prescribe
rules and regulations, or to delegate the same and to adopt the same, from time
to time, in order to make the department as responsive and efficient as
possible. (Ord. 3-81-82, 12-21-1981)
TITLE 12
MASTER PLAN
CHAPTER 1
CLOSING OF STREETS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Sumner Street
12-1-2: Fitch Street
12-1-3: St. John Street
12-1-4: Allen Street
12-1-5: Sixth Street
12-1-6: Mesa Drive
12-1-7: Historic Preservation District
12-1-1: SUMNER STREET:
Under the provisions of sections 9-240(e), 28-1901, and 28-1902(c) Sumner
Street as herein legally described is hereby vacated with title vesting
thereafter with the abutting property owner. The city of Tombstone retains the
necessary sewer utility easement as noted in the following legal description:
   A.   Legal Description: "That certain portion of Sumner Street, a sixty-foot
wide strip of land, bound on the north by Boothill Subdivision as shown in Book
109, Map 5, Cochise County Assessor's Maps and bound on the south by the
center-line of Fitch Street as shown in Book 109, Map 6, Cochise County
Assessor's Maps."
   B.   Easements: Reserving, however, the utility easements, and any oil and
mineral rights, more particularly described as an easement ten feet (10') in
width which traverses partially said right of way being vacated as indicated on
the attached map, conditioned upon, and subject to the fact that Boothill
Trailer Park must maintain existing residential dwellings or this section shall
become null and void. (Ord. 04-2002, 12-17-2002)
12-1-2: FITCH STREET:
Under the provisions of sections 9-240(e), 28-1901, and 28-1902(c) Fitch Street
between Second and Third as herein legally described is hereby vacated with
title vesting thereafter with the abutting property owner. The city of
Tombstone retains the necessary sewer utility easement as noted in the
following legal description:
   A.   Legal Description: Beginning at the NE corner of Block 72, thence
300.00 feet northwesterly to the NW corner of Block 72, thence 60.00 feet to
the point of beginning which is NE corner of Block 72, all being in the City of
Tombstone.
   B.   Easements: Reserving however, the sewer utility easement more
particularly described as an easement ten feet (10') in width which traverses
partially said right of way being vacated as indicated on the attached map,
conditioned upon, and subject to the fact that Light Investments, Inc., must
start construction on the adjacent lots within eighteen (18) months from the
approval of this chapter, or this section shall become null and void. (Ord. 03-
1985, 6-17-1985)
12-1-3: ST. JOHN STREET:
   A.   Under the provisions of sections 9-240(e), 28-1901, and 28-1902(c) St.
John Street between Charleston Road and Survey Street as herein legally
described is hereby vacated with title vesting thereafter with the abutting
property owners as noted in the following legal description:
      Beginning at the S.E. Corner of Lot 7 Block V and extending northwesterly
to the N.E. Corner of Lot 1 in Block V, thence easterly to the N.W. corner of
Lot 1 in Block VII, thence southerly to the S.W. Corner of Lot 17, in Block
VII, thence to the point of beginning; all of which is in the Survey Addition
to the City of Tombstone, in Cochise County, Arizona.
(Ord. 02-1986, 3-17-1986)
12-1-4: ALLEN STREET:
   A.   Within the city of Tombstone, county of Cochise, state of Arizona,
between Third Street and Sixth Street be closed all day, every day, to all
nonemergency and nonrestricted motor vehicular traffic and motor vehicular
parking except for emergency and public service vehicles in the course of
official duties. Nonrestricted vehicles may include, but not be limited to,
garbage trucks, the bank truck; semi-tractor trailer sized large delivery
trucks and horsedrawn conveyances. Merchant vehicles between six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. daily for delivery of merchandise and the
parking shall not exceed the time it takes to deliver the merchandise. Licensed
contractors with a building permit in good standing may enter the historic
preservation district after obtaining a special use permit from the city clerk,
for the purpose specified on the building permit. Bands, disc jockey, karaoke
jockey, or any entertainer and merchants that require the unloading and loading
heavy equipment shall be allowed no longer than thirty (30) minutes between six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and three o'clock (3:00) A.M. for the sole purpose of
unloading and loading equipment.
   B.   Third Street, Fourth Street, Fifth Street and Sixth Street shall remain
two-way streets.
   C.   Parking on Fourth Street and Fifth Street will be a combination of
angle and parallel parking as determined by the marshal's department and the
department of public works.
   D.   Animal drawn conveyances shall be allowed access to Allen Street
provided the animal drawn conveyances are properly permitted in accordance with
section
8-5-2, "Animal Use Permits", of this code.
   E.   The marshal's department and the department of public works shall
determine the number and location of handicap parking spaces. Handicap parking
should be assigned as close as possible to Allen Street, on the cross streets.
   F.   The department of public works shall change and improve the access to
the visitor's parking lot from Allen Street to Fourth Street.
   G.   Any vehicle in violation hereof may be towed away at the expense of the
owner or driver at the option of the office of city marshal.
   H.   Any person who shall wilfully violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00)
and by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both.
   I.   Motorized vehicular traffic may be allowed for special events for the
benefit of the quality of life and enjoyment of the citizens of Tombstone if
authorized by the mayor and common council.
   J.   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 2016-04, 10-11-2016)
12-1-5: SIXTH STREET:
Under the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes, sections 9-240(e), 28-7202
and 28-7205, Sixth Street as herein legally described is hereby vacated with
title vesting thereafter with the abutting property owner. The city of
Tombstone retains the necessary sewer utility easement as noted in the
following legal description:
   A.   Legal Description: All of Sixth Street between Fitch Street and North
Street, Tombstone City Map, recorded in Book 3 of Maps and Plats at page 85,
Cochise County, Arizona, more particularly described as follows:
      Beginning at the northwesterly corner of Block 90 of said Tombstone City
Map; thence N 67 degrees 10 minutes W 70.00 feet along the westerly
prolongation of the northerly line of said Block 90 to the northeast corner of
Block 89 of said Tombstone City Map; thence S 22 degrees 50 minutes W 307.50
feet along the easterly line of said Block 89 and the easterly line of that
abandonment of a portion of Fitch Street adjacent to said Block 89 as described
in Docket 559-367; thence S 67 degrees 10 minutes E 70.00 feet along the
easterly prolongation of the southerly line of said abandonment; thence N 22
degrees 50 minutes E 307.50 feet along the westerly line that abandonment of a
portion of Fitch Street adjacent to said Block 90 as described in Docket 559-
367 and the westerly line of said Block 90 to the point of beginning.
      Containing 0.494 acres.
   B.   Easements: Reserving, however, the utility easements more particularly
described as an easement ten feet (10') in width which traverses partially said
right of way being vacated. (Ord. 2007-07, 4-10-2007)
12-1-6: MESA DRIVE:
Under the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes, sections 9-240(e), 28-7202
and 28-7205 Mesa Drive and related alleyways as herein legally described is
hereby vacated with title vesting thereafter with the abutting property owner:
   A.   Legal Description: All of Mesa Drive, now known as Sheepshead Circle,
Tombstone Territory Estates, Unit 2, Tombstone, Arizona, as shown on that plat
recorded in Book 9 of Maps at page 40-A, Cochise County, Arizona, more
particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 392 as shown on said plat; thence N
89°44'37" W 64.20 feet along the southerly line of Mountain View Road as shown
on said plat, to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence southwesterly 29.98 feet
along the arc of a tangent curve concave to the southeast, having a radius of
25.00 feet and through an angle of 68°42'25", along the easterly line of said
Mesa Drive; thence S 21°32'57" W 452.27 feet along said easterly line; thence
southwesterly 135.24 feet along the arc of a tangent curve concave to the
northeast, having a radius of 111.20 feet and through an angle of 69°40'58",
along said easterly line; thence N 88°46'05" W 268.13 feet along the southerly
line of said Mesa Drive; thence northwesterly 290.96 feet along the arc of a
tangent curve concave to the northeast, having a radius of 125.56 feet and
through an angle of 132°46'13", along said southerly line; thence N 44°00'08" E
344.71 feet along the westerly line of said Mesa Drive; thence northerly 18.95
feet along the arc of a tangent curve concave to the northwest, having a radius
of 24.82 feet and through an angle of 43°44'45", along said westerly line, to a
point of compound curvature; thence northwesterly 39.27 feet along the arc of a
tangent curve concave to the southwest, having a radius of 25.00 feet and
through an angle of 90°00'00", along said westerly line, to a point on the
southerly line of said Mountain View Road; thence S 89°44'37" E 100.00 feet
along said southerly line to a point on the easterly line of said Mesa Drive;
thence, from a tangent that bears N 89°44'37" W, 39.27 feet along the arc of a
curve concave to the southeast, having a radius of 25.00 feet and through an
angle of 90°00'00", along said easterly line, to a point of reverse curvature;
thence southerly 57.12 feet along the arc of a tangent curve concave to the
northwest, having a radius of 74.82 feet and through an angle of 43°44'45",
along said easterly line; thence S 44°00'08" W 344.17 feet along said easterly
line; thence southeasterly 175.08 feet along the arc of a tangent curve concave
to the northeast, having a radius of 75.56 feet and through an angle of
132°46'13", along said easterly line; thence S 88°46'05" E 268.13 feet along
northerly line of said Mesa Drive; thence northeasterly 74.43 feet along the
arc of a tangent curve concave to the northwest, having a radius of 61.20 feet
and through an angle of 69°40'58", along said northerly line; thence N
21°32'57" E 413.28 feet along the westerly line of said Mesa Drive; thence
northwesterly 48.56 feet along the arc of a tangent curve concave to the
southwest, having a radius of 25.00 feet and through an angle of 111°17'35",
along said westerly line, to a point on the southerly line of said Mountain
View Road; thence S 89°44'37" E 107.33 feet along said southerly line to the
point of beginning.
Containing 1.706 acres.
   B.   Legal Description: All of the alley ways adjoining Lots 406 through
417, Tombstone Territory Estates, Unit 2, Tombstone, Arizona, as shown on that
plat recorded in Book 9 of Maps at page 40-A, Cochise County, Arizona, more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the northeast corner of said Lot 417; thence S 21°32'57" W 322.08
feet along the easterly line of said Lots 415 through 417; thence S 56°23'26" W
24.62 feet along the easterly line of said Lot 415; thence N 88°46'05" W 222.94
feet along the southerly line of said Lot 415 to a point on the easterly line
of Mesa Drive, now known as Sheepshead Circle, as shown on said plat; thence S
44°00'08" W 21.80 feet along said easterly line; thence S 88°46'05" E 413.16
feet along the northerly line of said Lots 410 through 413, to a point on the
westerly line of said Mesa Drive; thence N 21°32'57" E 17.06 feet along said
westerly line; thence N 88°46'05" W 134.29 feet along the southerly line of
said Lot 409; thence N 33°36'34" W 17.14 feet along the westerly line of said
Lot 409; thence N 21°32'57" E 322.39 feet along the westerly line of Lots 406
through 409, to a point on the southerly line of said Mountain View Road;
thence N 89°44'37' W 17.17 feet along said southerly line to the point of
beginning.
Containing 0.279 acres.
(Ord. 2008-12, 6-10-2008)
12-1-7: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Restrictions On Various Streets:
      1.   Fourth and Fifth Streets, within the city of Tombstone, county of
Cochise, state of Arizona, between Fremont and Toughnut closed all day, every
day, to all motor vehicular traffic and motor vehicular parking except for
emergency vehicles, service vehicles in the course of official duties, and
nonrestricted motor vehicles. Nonrestricted motorized vehicles include garbage
trucks, the bank truck, delivery trucks, and vehicles belonging to licensed
contractors engaged by the city or a business owner to perform a trade. (Ord.
2009-01, 2-26-2009)
      2.   Delivery trucks and contractors' vehicles shall be allowed to park
on Fourth or Fifth Street and Allen Street within the historic preservation
district between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. until ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. Monday through Friday for the purpose of engaging in their trade or
service, except in emergency situations which affect the health, safety or
welfare of the general public. In emergency situations, vehicles shall be
permitted at any time and for the time it takes to resolve the emergency
situation. Merchants or their employees shall be allowed to make deliveries to
their store locations between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M.; however merchants that sell large items that require the
customer to pick up merchandise at the merchant's storefront shall have ten
(10) minutes for loading time. No deliveries on weekends or holidays. (Ord.
2009-01, 2-26-2009; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
Residents living on Fourth or Fifth Street may obtain a special use permit from
the city clerk for "resident parking permit".
      3.   All delivery trucks larger than three (3) tons or having more than
four (4) wheels or two (2) axles shall enter onto Fourth or Fifth Street from
Fremont Street. Delivery trucks exiting Fourth Street onto Toughnut Street can
only make a right turn. Delivery trucks exiting Fifth Street onto Toughnut
Street can only make a left turn. Trucks larger than three (3) tons or having
more than four (4) wheels or two (2) axles are prohibited on Toughnut Street
between Fourth Street and Fifth Street. Smaller delivery trucks, such as UPS,
FedEx shall have access to the parking lot located on the south side of Allen
Street between Third and Fourth Streets. Ingress and egress will be from South
Fourth Street off of Toughnut Street. This parking lot may also be used and is
restricted to the workers or employees within the Old Bank Building after
obtaining a special use permit from the city clerk. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-26-2009)
   B.   Licensed Contractors: Licensed contractors with a building permit in
good standing may enter the historic preservation district after obtaining a
special use permit from the city clerk, for the purpose specified on the
building permit. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-26-2009; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 7-14-2015)
   C.   Prohibited Parking: Parking on Fourth Street and Fifth Street shall be
prohibited except as stated in subsection A2 of this section.
   D.   Violation:
      1.   Any vehicle in violation hereof may be towed away at the expense of
the owner or driver at the option of the office of city marshal.
      2.   Any person who shall wilfully violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00)
and by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months or both. (Ord. 2009-01, 2-26-
2009)
CHAPTER 2
VACATING ALLEYS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Alley Located Between Lots 594 Through 599
12-2-2: Alley Located Between Lots 191 Through 192
12-2-3: Alley Located Between Lots 5 And 10
12-2-1: ALLEY LOCATED BETWEEN LOTS 594 THROUGH 599:
   A.   Under the provisions of section 9-240(e), 28-1091, and 28-1902(c) this
alley as herein legally described is hereby vacated with title vesting
thereafter the abutting property owner:
Beginning at the NE corner of Lot #597 and extending southerly 305.48' to the
SE corner of Lot #599, thence 16' easterly to the SW corner of Lot #594, thence
northerly 306.54' to the NW corner of Lot #596, thence 16' westerly to the
point of beginning; all of which is in Tombstone Territorial Estates, Unit 2,
in the City of Tombstone, Cochise County, Arizona.
   (Ord. 1-1990, 2-8-1990)
12-2-2: ALLEY LOCATED BETWEEN LOTS 191 THROUGH 192:
   A.   It is in the best interests of the city of Tombstone that the alley
running between lots 191 and 192, Tombstone Territory Estates, unit 1, be and
the same is vacated.
   B.   Provided, that the city retains the right to erect, construct,
maintain, operate, repair and replace, by itself or by any licensee or holder
of a franchise from the city, any poles, wires, pipes, conduits, sewer mains,
waters mains, or any other facility or equipment for the maintenance or
operation of any utility now or in the future to be located in the alley or a
portion thereof vacated by this chapter. (Ord. 1-1992, 2-24-1992)
12-2-3: ALLEY LOCATED BETWEEN LOTS 5 AND 10:
The following alley be vacated and closed against the public use:
The Westerly five (5) feet of Lot 5 and the Easterly five (5) feet of Lot 10,
Block 7, Coronado Heights addition to the City of Tombstone, Cochise County,
Arizona, as shown on map on file in book 3 of Maps and Plats at page 9, of the
records of Cochise County.
(Ord. 3-1993, 10-18-1993)
CHAPTER 3
REZONING LOTS
SECTION:
12-3-1: R-3 Multiple Residence Zone
12-3-2: I-1 Light Industry And Warehouse Zone
12-3-3: MH-1 Mobile Home Zone
12-3-4: B-1 Local Business Zone
12-3-5: B-2 General Business Zone
12-3-6: Western Urban Ranch (WUR)
12-3-1: R-3 MULTIPLE RESIDENCE ZONE:
The following described property in the city of Tombstone, Cochise County,
Arizona, be hereby zoned to R-3 multiple residence zone:
The property located South of the Townsite between the centerline of 6th Street
extended Southerly, on the West; and the centerline of 10th Street extended
Southerly, on the East; to a point 1,400 feet South of the Townsite in the City
of Tombstone, Arizona.
(Ord. 02-1987, 8-17-1987)
12-3-2: I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRY AND WAREHOUSE ZONE:
The following described property in the city of Tombstone, Cochise County,
Arizona, be hereby zoned I-1 light industry and warehouse zone:
The property located in Block K of the Tombstone Townsite, being lots 4, 5, 6
and 7, and Block IV of the Survey Addition, being Lot 1 to and in the City of
Tombstone, Arizona.
(Ord. 1-1986, 2-11-1986)
12-3-3: MH-1 MOBILE HOME ZONE:
   A.   The following described property in the city of Tombstone, Cochise
County, Arizona, be hereby zoned to MH-1 mobile home zone:
      Lots 12, 13, 14, and 15 in Boothill Subdivision in the City of Tombstone,
Arizona.
(Ord. 5-1988, 12-19-1988)
   B.   The following described property in the city of Tombstone, Cochise
County, Arizona, be hereby zoned to MH-1 mobile home zone:
      Parcels No. 109-19-4, 8, 9, & 10 over the New Years Gift Mining Claim in
the City of Tombstone, Cochise County, Arizona.
(Ord. 09-1987, 12-18-1988)
12-3-4: B-1 LOCAL BUSINESS ZONE:
The following described property in the city of Tombstone, Cochise County,
Arizona, be hereby zoned to B-1 local business zone:
   Lots 4 & 5 in block 106 in the Bowman addition to and in the City of
Tombstone, Arizona.
(Ord. 04-1985, 10-8-1985)
   Lots 3 through 11 of Block II in the City of Tombstone.
(Ord. 2008-01, 1-8-2008)
12-3-5: B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS ZONE:
   A.   The following described property in the city of Tombstone, Cochise
County, Arizona, be hereby zoned to B-2 general business zone:
      Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 in Block 107 of the Bowman Addition to and
in the City of Tombstone, Arizona.
(Ord. 06-1986, 11-26-1986)
   B.   The following property shall be rezoned from R-1 to B-2:
      Portion of NW 1/4, SW 1/4, Sec. 2, T2OS, R22E, G&SRB&M (34 acres)
Tombstone, Arizona.
(Ord. 4-1992, 9-9-1992)
12-3-6: WESTERN URBAN RANCH (WUR):
   A.   The following described property known as Reach 1 and Reach 2 in the
city of Tombstone, Cochise County, Arizona, be hereby zoned western urban ranch
(WUR):
A portion of Sections 33 and 34, Township 19 South, Range 22 East, Gila and
Salt River Base Meridian, and a portion Section 3, Township 20 South, Range 22
East, Gila and Salt River Base Meridian, more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of the existing Tombstone City boundary;
thence EAST 1040 feet along the north line of said Tombstone City boundary;
thence NORTH 620 feet along the east line of said Section 34; thence WEST 2640
feet along the north line of the south half of the southeast quarter of said
Section 34; thence NORTH 1320 feet along the east line of the southwest quarter
of said Section 34; thence WEST 2640 feet along the north line of the southwest
quarter of said Section 34; thence WEST 1320 feet along the north line of the
southeast quarter of said Section 33; thence SOUTH 2640 feet along the west
line of the east half of the southeast quarter of said Section 33; thence EAST
1320 feet along the south line of the southeast quarter of said Section 33;
thence EAST 2640 feet along the south line of the southwest quarter of said
Section 34; thence SOUTH 1320 feet along the west line of the north half of the
northeast quarter of said Section 3; thence EAST 1600 feet along the south line
of the north half of the northeast quarter of Section 3, to the west line of
the existing Tombstone City boundary; thence NORTH 2020 feet along said west
line to the point of beginning. Containing 351.8 acres.
AND A portion of Sections 3,4,9, and 10, Township 20 South, Range 22 East, Gila
and Salt River Base Meridian, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest corner of the existing Tombstone City boundary;
thence NORTH 4410 feet along the west line of said Tombstone City boundary;
thence WEST 280 feet along the south line of the south half of the southeast
quarter of said Section 3; thence NORTH 1320 feet along the east line of the
southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 3; thence WEST 1320
feet along the north line of the south half of the southeast quarter of said
Section 3; thence NORTH 1320 feet along the east line of the southwest quarter
of said Section 3; thence WEST 2640 feet along the north line of the southwest
quarter of said Section 3; thence WEST 1320 feet along the north line of the
northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 4; thence SOUTH 1320
feet along the west of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said
Section 4; thence EAST 1320 feet along the south line of the northeast quarter
of the southeast quarter of said Section 4; thence SOUTH 1320 feet along the
west line of the southwest quarter of said Section 3; thence WEST 1320 feet
along the north line of the east half of the east half of said Section 9;
thence SOUTH 5280 feet along the west line of the east half of the east half of
said Section 9; thence EAST 1320 feet along the south line of the east half of
the east half of said Section 9; thence EAST 4240 feet along the south line of
said Section 10; thence NORTH 870 feet along the southerly prolongation of the
west line of the existing Tombstone City boundary to the point of beginning.
Containing 913.90 acres.
(Ord. 2008-10, 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Business Conducted In B-2 General Business Zone
12-4-2: Extending The Corporate Limits
12-4-3: Extending The Corporate Limits; Reach 1
12-4-4: Extending The Corporate Limits; Reach 2
12-4-1: BUSINESS CONDUCTED IN B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS ZONE:
A change from the terms of the zoning ordinance is hereby granted to permit
Shirley and Theodore Villarin to conduct business permitted in a B-2 general
business zone, as described in the zoning ordinance, on the premises known as
15 North 4th Street, which property was formerly zoned to permit multiple
dwellings for any number of families (R-3).
The findings and recommendations of the planning and zoning commission on the
question of granting this change are hereby accepted and adopted and made a
part of this chapter. (Ord. 2-1992, 2-24-1992)
12-4-2: EXTENDING THE CORPORATE LIMITS:
   A.   The present corporate limits of the city of Tombstone shall be extended
and increased by annexing and adding to said present corporate limits the
contiguous territory particularly described as follows: (Ord. 7-80-81, 4-27-
1981)
      1.   The Surface together with a depth of 40 feet immediately beneath the
Surface of the Houghton Mining District, being shown on Mineral Survey No. 3228
on file in the Bureau of Land Management, as granted by Patent recorded in Book
29 of Deeds of Mines at page 335, records of Cochise County, Arizona, lying
Northeasterly of the Northeasterly line of the following described property:
BEGINNING at the most Southerly corner of said mining claim;
Thence North 65 degrees 29 minutes West recorded (North 65 degrees 35 minutes
West measured) along the Southwesterly line of said mining claim a distance of
165.73 feet to a point in the center line of the Southern Pacific Company
right-of-way;
Thence North 3 degrees 7 minutes west, along said center line, a distance of
739.65 feet to a point in the Northwesterly line of said mining claim;
Thence North 32 degrees 47 minutes East along said line a distance of 485.86
feet to an iron pin, said pin being on the West right-of-way line of Old U.S.
Highway 80;
Thence South 22 degrees 45 minutes east along said West right-of-way line, a
distance of 722.84 feet to an iron pin, said pin being on the Southeasterly
line of said Mining Claim;
Thence South 32 degrees 47 minutes West recorded (South 32 degrees 39 minutes
Wet measured) along said Southeasterly line a distance of 651.51 feet to the
POINT OF BEGINNING;
And accepting any portions lying within the right-of-way of Old U.S. Highway
80.
(Ord. 7-80-81, 4-27-1981; amd. Ord. 2016-02, 3-8-2016)
      2.   The remaining portion of Section 4, Township 20S, Range 22E and the
remaining portion of Section 3, Township 20S not in the existing Tombstone City
Boundary. The remaining portion of Section 34, Township 19S, Range 22E and the
remaining eastern half portion of Section 33, Township 19S, Range 22E not in
the existing City of Tombstone boundary. The east half of Section 28, Township
19S, Range 22E. "Reference to attachment A".
(Ord. 2016-02, 3-8-2016)
   B.   There is annexed hereto and by reference herein made a part hereof an
accurate map of the hereinabove described contiguous territory duly certified.
   C.   The said contiguous territory hereinabove described shall henceforth be
part of the municipal corporate limits thereof. (Ord. 7-80-81, 4-27-1981)
12-4-3: EXTENDING THE CORPORATE LIMITS; REACH 1:
   A.   The present corporate limits of the city of Tombstone shall be extended
and increased by annexing and adding to said present corporate limits the
contiguous territory particularly described as follows:
A portion of Sections 33 and 34, Township 19 South, Range 22 East, Gila and
Salt River Base Meridian, and a portion Section 3, Township 20 South, Range 22
East, Gila and Salt River Base Meridian, more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of the existing Tombstone City boundary;
thence EAST 1040 feet along the north line of said Tombstone City boundary;
thence NORTH 620 feet along the east line of said Section 34; thence WEST 2640
feet along the north line of the south half of the southeast quarter of said
Section 34; thence NORTH 1320 feet along the east line of the southwest quarter
of said Section 34; thence WEST 2640 feet along the north line of the southwest
quarter of said Section 34; thence WEST 1320 feet along the north line of the
southeast quarter of said Section 33; thence SOUTH 2640 feet along the west
line of the east half of the southeast quarter of said Section 33; thence EAST
1320 feet along the south line of the southeast quarter of said Section 33;
thence EAST 2640 feet along the south line of the southwest quarter of said
Section 34; thence SOUTH 1320 feet along the west line of the north half of the
northeast quarter of said Section 3; thence EAST 1600 feet along the south line
of the north half of the northeast quarter of Section 3, to the west line of
the existing Tombstone City boundary; thence NORTH 2020 feet along said west
line to the point of beginning. Containing 351.8 acres.
   B.   There is annexed hereto and by reference herein made a part hereof an
accurate map of the hereinabove described contiguous territory duly certified.
   C.   The said contiguous territory hereinabove described shall henceforth be
part of the municipal corporate limits thereof. (Ord. 2008-08, 5-13-2008)
12-4-4: EXTENDING THE CORPORATE LIMITS; REACH 2:
   A.   The present corporate limits of the city of Tombstone shall be extended
and increased by annexing and adding to said present corporate limits the
contiguous territory particularly described as follows:
A portion of Sections 3, 4, 9, and 10, Township 20 South, Range 22 East, Gila
and Salt River Base Meridian, more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the southwest corner of the existing Tombstone City boundary;
thence NORTH 4410 feet along the west line of said Tombstone City boundary;
thence WEST 280 feet along the south line of the south half of the southeast
quarter of said Section 3; thence NORTH 1320 feet along the east line of the
southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 3; thence WEST 1320
feet along the north line of the south half of the southeast quarter of said
Section 3; thence NORTH 1320 feet along the east line of the southwest quarter
of said Section 3; thence WEST 2640 feet along the north line of the southwest
quarter of said Section 3; thence WEST 1320 feet along the north line of the
northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said Section 4; thence SOUTH 1320
feet along the west of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of said
Section 4; thence EAST 1320 feet along the south line of the northeast quarter
of the southeast quarter of said Section 4; thence SOUTH 1320 feet along the
west line of the southwest quarter of said Section 3; thence WEST 1320 feet
along the north line of the east half of the east half of said Section 9;
thence SOUTH 5280 feet along the west line of the east half of the east half of
said Section 9; thence EAST 1320 feet along the south line of the east half of
the east half of said Section 9; thence EAST 4240 feet along the south line of
said Section 10; thence NORTH 870 feet along the southerly prolongation of the
west line of the existing Tombstone City boundary to the point of beginning.
Containing 913.90 acres.
   B.   There is annexed hereto and by reference herein made a part hereof an
accurate map of the hereinabove described contiguous territory duly certified.
   C.   The said contiguous territory hereinabove described shall henceforth be
part of the municipal corporate limits thereof. (Ord. 2008-09, 5-13-2008)
TITLE 13
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Title
13-1-2: Purpose
13-1-3: Planning And Zoning Commission And City Council Review
13-1-4: Compliance With Arizona Revised Statutes
13-1-5: Requirements For Subdividing
13-1-6: Tentative Plat Regulations
13-1-7: Final Plat; General Submittals And Review Process
13-1-8: General Requirements
13-1-9: Lot Sales, Improvement Security And Inspections
13-1-10: Alternative Residential Subdivision Options
13-1-11: Definitions
13-1-12: Adoption Of Ordinance And Severability
13-1-13: Penalties For Violation
13-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This ordinance may be cited as the TOMBSTONE CITY SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
(Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-2: PURPOSE:
In conformance with the city comprehensive plan, the subdivision regulations
are hereby approved and adopted to achieve the following:
   A.   Protect the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   B.   Provide for the orderly growth and harmonious development of the city.
   C.   Require that land be conveyed with an accurate legal description.
   D.   Establish procedures and standards for all subdivisions.
   E.   Provide adequate traffic circulation, streets, utilities, wastewater
treatment, drainage, fire and flood protection, schools, recreation areas and
other facilities and services needed or desired by the community in the most
cost effective manner, with the cost being borne by those benefited.
   F.   Result in individual lots of reasonable utility and livability and to
promote neighborhood stability and protection of property values.
   G.   Promote conservation of those areas with unique natural features and
scenic qualities and provide residents with access to these areas.
   H.   Promote water recharge and clean air.
   I.   Provide greater design flexibility and efficiency for services and
infrastructure including design methods that reduce the length of streets, thus
reducing the amount of improved surface and length of utility runs.
   J.   Encourage well planned subdivisions by establishing environmentally
adequate standards for design and improvement.
   K.   Provide viable, innovative, cost effective, voluntary development
alternatives.
   L.   Prevent development of land with geologic and engineering hazards or
constraints.
   M.   Provide a plan to identify hazards and constraints. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-
2005)
13-1-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL REVIEW:
A subdivision tentative or final plat shall only be approved by the planning
and zoning commission and city council if the proposed subdivision:
   A.   Is in accordance with applicable city zoning and subdivision
regulations.
   B.   Is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan and other
applicable adopted plans.
   C.   Is designed to be harmonious with the terrain and surrounding area with
due regard shown for significant natural features such as trees or other
significant vegetated areas, water recharge areas and washes, views, historical
and archaeological sites and similar community assets.
   D.   Has adequate public access and minimizes traffic conflict on arterial
and city collector streets.
   E.   Has subdivision streets that are coordinated with existing and planned
streets and access is reserved for future development of nearby properties.
   F.   Has a demonstrated sufficient supply of potable water that does not
result in an unreasonable depreciation of an existing water supply.
   G.   Would not create water pollution.
   H.   Has an adequate sewage disposal system.
   I.   Is designed to include reasonable methods to minimize water use.
   J.   Is designed to include adequate methods to control dust during
construction and control accelerated runoff, off site erosion and to conserve
water.
   K.   Has adequate fire protection.
   L.   Would not result in an unreasonable burden on the ability of city or
other local governments or public service agencies to provide for streets,
water, sewage, fire, police, hospital, solid waste, education, housing,
recreation and other services.
   M.   Is designed to include safety factors to address flooding, poor
drainage, steep slopes, rock formations or other features likely to be harmful
to the public health, safety, convenience or general welfare.
   N.   Is designed with due regard for natural, historic and cultural
resources.
   O.   Has screening or buffering from incompatible existing commercial or
industrial uses bordering the subdivision.
   P.   Has provided adequate securities to ensure completion of subdivision on
site and off site improvements.
   Q.   Is not subject to liens for delinquent taxes. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES:
Terms used in this section are intended to have the same meanings as
established by state law in Arizona Revised Statutes title 32, chapter 20,
article 1 and will be deemed to be amended by any changes in that state law:
   A.   Definitions:
    SUBDIVIDER: Any person who offers for sale or lease four (4) or more lots,
parcels or fractional interests in a subdivision or who causes land to be
subdivided into a subdivision for the subdivider or for others, or who
undertakes to develop a subdivision, but does not include a public agency or
officer authorized by law to create subdivisions. This includes a person who
offers for sale or lease four (4) or more lots, parcels or fractional interests
in a previously platted subdivision which does not include all roads, utilities
and other improvements required by these regulations.
   SUBDIVISION OR SUBDIVIDED LANDS: Improved or unimproved land or lands
divided or proposed to be divided for the purpose of sale or lease, whether
immediate or future, into six (6) or more lots, parcels or fractional
interests. Subdivision or subdivided lands include a stock cooperative and
include lands divided or proposed to be divided as part of a common promotional
plan. This definition shall not apply to leasehold offerings of one year or
less or to the division or proposed division of land located in the state of
Arizona into lots or parcels each of which is, or will be, thirty six (36)
acres or more in area including to the centerline of dedicated streets or
easements, if any, contiguous to the lot or parcel and provided further that
this definition shall not be deemed to include the leasing of agricultural
lands, or of apartments, offices, stores, hotels, motels, pads or similar space
within an apartment building, industrial building, rental recreational vehicle
community, rental manufactured home community, rental mobile home park or
commercial building, except that residential condominiums as defined in Arizona
Revised Statutes title 33, chapter 9 shall be included in this definition, nor
shall this definition include the subdivision into or development of parcels,
plots or fractional portions within the boundaries of a cemetery that has been
formed and approved pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The following are exempt under these regulations:
         a.   The sale or lease in bulk of four (4) or more lots, parcels or
fractional interests to one buyer in one transaction is exempt only if the
entire inventory of parcels owned by the seller is sold in one transaction.
         b.   The sale or lease of lots or parcels located in a single platted
subdivision by a subdivider if:
            (1)   A valid public report has been issued within the past two (2)
years by the Arizona department of real estate on the subdivision lots or
parcels; and
            (2)   The subdivision meets all current requirements otherwise
required of a subdivision under these regulations; and
            (3)   The method of sale or lease of lots or parcels meets all
current requirements under Arizona law; and
            (4)   The lots or parcels are included on a recorded subdivision
plat that has been approved by the city; and
            (5)   All streets and roads within the subdivision, all utilities
to the lots or parcels being offered for sale or lease and all other required
improvements within the subdivision, other than a residence to be built, are
complete, paid for and free of any blanket encumbrances; or the streets,
utilities or other improvements are not complete, but the completion of all
such improvements is assured as required by section
13-1-5 of these regulations.
      2.   All nonexempt sales of subdivision land by a subdivider shall be
subject to these rules. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVIDING:
   A.   No plat of a subdivision of land within the area of jurisdiction of the
city of Tombstone shall be accepted for recording or recorded until it has been
approved by the planning and zoning commission and the city council.
   B.   Any person causing a final plat to be recorded without first submitting
the plat and obtaining approval of the board is guilty of a class 2
misdemeanor.
   C.   No person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity who is a subdivider
shall sell, offer to sell, or divide any lot, piece or parcel of land in a
subdivision or part thereof, unless that land is designated on a final plat
recorded in accordance with these subdivision regulations, and all the
conditions of these regulations have been met. Any use or development of
property contrary to the provisions of these regulations shall be unlawful,
against the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, and a
public nuisance.
   D.   A subdivider shall not sell or lease or offer for sale or lease
subdivision land until the subdivider has fulfilled all of the conditions of
these regulations, including the installation of all necessary site
improvements unless the property is exempt from any additional requirements
imposed by these regulations as the result of meeting each of the conditions of
section
13-1-3 of this chapter above or there is a vested right to continue to develop
and sell the subject property. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-6: TENTATIVE PLAT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to describe the tentative plat
procedures common to all subdivision options unless otherwise specified in
subsequent sections.
   B.   Summary Of Tentative Plat Submittals And Review Schedule:
      1.   Submittals (Summary Only, Review Details In Sections That Follow):
Submittal of a concept plan is recommended at the pretentative plat meeting.
         a.   Tentative plat application:
            Tentative plat fifteen (15) copies: Twenty four inches by thirty
six inches (24" x 36") (folded to 8.5 by 11 inches) and one copy: eleven inches
by seventeen inches (11" x 17") (subsequent reviews of revised plats require
one 11 by 17 inch version and as many full size copies determined necessary).
            Tentative plat fee and health department fee.
            Letter of intent including justification of waivers.
            Hydrology report.
            Copy of application to state department of water resources for
determination of water adequacy.
            Traffic analysis (see 405.01).
         b.   Recommended at tentative plat, required at final plat:
            Draft covenants, conditions and restrictions and homeowners'
association bylaws, if any.
            Maintenance plan for common areas, if any.
            Boundary closures and line table.
            Method of ensuring improvements.
      2.   Approximate Review Schedule: Informal pretentative plat meeting
scheduled within approximately one week of an applicant's request.
         a.   The initial review by the subdivision committee takes
approximately six (6) weeks and is comprised of the following steps:
            (1)   Submittal meeting with planning staff to determine if
application is complete. If complete:
               (A)   Within one week: Planning department will transmit the
application for review to the subdivision committee.
               (B)   Within three (3) weeks: A staff only subdivision committee
meeting will be held.
               (C)   Within five (5) weeks: Written comments will be provided.
               (D)   Within six (6) weeks: A subdivision committee meeting with
the applicant will be held.
            (2)   The time frame of subsequent reviews is as needed depending
on the complexity of the revisions.
            (3)   When the subdivision committee finds that all applicable
requirements are satisfactorily met, the plat shall be set for action at the
next scheduled commission meeting if all required materials are received at
least fifteen (15) working days in advance.
   C.   Tentative Plat Submittals:
      1.   Informal Pretentative Plat Meeting: A preliminary meeting with the
planning and zoning commission (see subsection D1 of this section) is required.
The purpose of this preliminary meeting is to discuss design alternatives and
to provide the applicant with as much information as possible prior to
investing money in the formal tentative and final plat submittals. Reaching a
clear understanding of the overall subdivision concept before preparation of
the tentative plat while plans are still flexible, is an important step for the
city and the subdivider. Providing a concept plan and preliminary information
one week before the meeting is recommended. The subdivider and city should be
prepared to discuss the items listed below:
         a.   Layout of lots.
         b.   Floodplain, setbacks from washes and any construction or
alterations occurring in the floodplain.
         c.   Adjacent development.
         d.   Streets.
            (1)   Proposed width and surface of internal streets and whether
the streets are public or private.
            (2)   Provision for existing and future circulation and road
dedication within and in the adjacent area.
            (3)   Purpose and design of common areas if any.
            (4)   Width, status and surface of the streets providing access to
the property.
            (5)   Subdivision impacts on off site resources such as roads.
         e.   Extent of traffic analysis needed.
         f.   Provisions for fire protection and how the impact on the fire
district (if one exists) will be addressed.
         g.   Provisions for water and wastewater treatment.
         h.   Water conservation measures to minimize increased water use.
      2.   Tentative Plat Submittal Meeting: The applicant shall schedule an
appointment with the planning and zoning commission to submit tentative plat
applications. An incomplete application will not be processed. The planning and
zoning commission representative shall determine if a submittal is complete at
the submittal meeting. A complete application must have all of the requirements
listed in this section.
      3.   Tentative Plat Submittal Requirements:
         a.   The tentative plat submittal shall include:
            (1)   Fifteen (15) copies of the tentative plat that are twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") in size and folded to 8.5 by 11
inches in size.
            (2)   One 11 by 17 inch reduced version. Subsequent revisions shall
include one 11 by 17 inch reduced version and additional full copies as needed.
         b.   The following information shall be clearly and legibly drawn on
the tentative plat at a scale of one inch equals forty feet (1" = 40'), one
inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'), one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'), or one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200') as necessary to show all
required details.
            (1)   Show on sheet number one only:
               (A)   Metes and bounds legal description of all property being
subdivided and parcel numbers.
               (B)   Key maps showing:
                  (i)   Location of the subdivision within the context of the
surrounding area and major roads.
                  (ii)   The relationship of the sheets when the plat consists
of two (2) or more sheets.
               (C)   All applicable standard notes listed below and other notes
required by the subdivision committee:
                  (i)   This subdivision has private streets that are not
maintained by the city of Tombstone.
                  (ii)   The minimum floor elevations including basements shall
be (#) inches above the highest natural ground elevation at the building pad.
No building shall be oriented in such a way as to block the natural storm
runoff. All lots are subject to the requirements of the hydrology and hydrology
study prepared for this subdivision and on file with the Cochise County highway
and floodplain department.
                  (iii)   Existing platted streets not incorporated into the
subdivision shall be abandoned separately through the city council abandonment
process.
                  (iv)   Individual sewage disposal systems are proposed
(septic tank and leach field). Prior to building permit issuance, individual
percolation or soil evaluations will be required for all lots. A minimum one
hundred foot (100') setback is required from all wells and fifty feet (50')
from all lot lines.
                  (v)   If sewage disposal systems other than conventional
leach field systems are required, Arizona department of environmental quality
(ADEQ) approval is required prior to construction of the system.
                  (vi)   Dust and erosion control measures shall be employed
during and postconstruction and shall comply with the city of Tombstone land
clearing ordinance.
                  (vii)   It is the subdivider's responsibility to obtain
additional state or federal permits.
                  (viii)   Zoning is (type) and shall remain.
                  (ix)   The length in miles of streets.
               (D)   Name of the subdivision and subdivider and property owner
if different.
               (E)   Name, registration number, seal and signature of a
professional civil engineer or land surveyor licensed to practice in the state
of Arizona.
               (F)   Date of plat (updated on subsequent revisions and noted as
second revised plat, etc., ...).
            (2)   Scale and north arrow on all pages.
            (3)   Streets:
               (A)   Locations and widths of proposed streets, and other rights
of way.
               (B)   Road cross sections for all types of proposed streets in
accordance with the applicable standard in the Tombstone department of public
works road construction standards and specifications for public improvements.
               (C)   Sight distance triangles at all road intersections.
            (4)   Boundaries of all areas subject to inundation or storm water
overflow. Erosion setbacks and 100-year floodplain limits to be depicted.
            (5)   Existing topographical contours for every two (2) vertical
feet change unless otherwise noted in these regulations.
            (6)   Area to be cleared. Clearing cannot occur until the
improvement plans are substantially approved.
            (7)   Street layout designed to control accelerated runoff and off
site erosion.
            (8)   Washes identified as significant in the upper San Pedro
partnership hydrologic protection areas final report or any applicable city
land use plans.
            (9)   Existing easements including recording data and proposed
easements and their purpose.
            (10)   Phasing, with each phase designed to stand alone in the
event other phases are not completed.
            (11)   Lots and boundary lines including:
               Approximate lot lines with a depiction of a typical and minimum
lot.
               Proposed use of each lot.
               Typical lot depicting wash setbacks, buildable areas and
defensible space setbacks, if applicable.
               Boundary lines, distances and bearings for subdivision
boundaries.
               Drainageways and detention basins.
            (12)   Existing structures, walls, ponds, tanks, wells, irrigation
canals, laterals, ditches and dikes, streets, paths, trails and utilities
denoting whether these items are to remain, be altered or removed.
            (13)   Common areas reserved or dedicated for parks, schools or
other public uses, including private streets and conservation areas.
            (14)   Profile of the fencing and gating to be used if the
subdivision is a gated community and a note on how access will be provided for
emergency vehicles.
            (15)   Location and design of community mailboxes with pullout for
vehicle parking for mail pick up if proposed.
            (16)   Location of fire hydrants, water tanks or other requirements
for fire protection.
            (17)   Area and number of tracts, if any, to be excluded from the
proposed subdivision and their proposed use.
            (18)   Adjacent zoning district classifications, subdivisions with
recordation reference, parcels and nearby streets.
            (19)   Wherever individual sewage disposal systems are proposed,
provision of the locations and dates of soil percolation tests or soil
evaluations for a minimum one-third (1/3) of the lots along with a tabulated
list of such tests and evaluations.
            (20)   Depiction of other natural features such as significant
vegetated areas, water recharge areas and washes, views, historical and
archaeological sites and similar community assets that should be taken into
account during design.
            (21)   Other notes in support of proposed covenants, conditions and
restrictions such as building envelopes, landscaping restrictions and
restrictions to certain types of structures and lot sizes.
            (22)   Any other items as required by law or as required by the
planning and zoning commission.
      4.   Letter Of Intent: A written letter of intent to subdivide must be
submitted with the tentative plat. This letter must include the following
information and certifications.
         a.   Date of submittal. Change as per adoption of ordinance.
         b.   Name and address of each person having an interest in the
proposed subdivision and the extent of such interest.
         c.   Name, phone number and e-mail address of contact person.
         d.   Notarized letter of agency from the owner if the project
representative is not the owner.
         e.   Metes and bounds legal description and general location of the
proposed subdivision, distance to the nearest incorporated town and a
sufficient description of existing landmarks and boundaries to locate and field
inspect the proposed subdivision by vehicle.
         f.   Parcel numbers and working name of the proposed subdivision.
         g.   Total area in acres and number of lots in the proposed
subdivision and typical and minimum lot sizes.
         h.   Reference by book, page and date of recordation of any previous
plats.
         i.   Utilities and services:
            (1)   Description of the utility service areas which serve the
subdivision.
            (2)   Description of medical facilities, elementary and high
schools and public transportation available to the subdivision.
         j.   Nature of off site and on site improvements proposed to be
constructed by the subdivider including:
            (1)   Description of how improvements will be guaranteed.
            (2)   Description of the existing legal and physical access to the
site.
            (3)   Statement as to whether private streets are proposed and how
they will be maintained.
         k.   Statement as to whether the community will be gated and how
access will be provided for emergency services.
         l.   Description of any special districts in which the proposed
subdivision is located.
         m.   Description of the zoning district classifications in which the
proposed subdivision is located along with a statement that all applicable city
of Tombstone zoning regulations shall be satisfied within the proposed
subdivision.
         n.   Statement that the proposed subdivision is intended to meet the
minimum city standards or identification of any waivers that are anticipated.
Provide a technical justification for any waivers from the provisions of these
subdivision regulations or any other applicable city regulations.
         o.   Statement of what provisions will be made for fencing the
subdivision to preclude livestock from roaming within the subdivision and on
public streets, if any.
         p.   Description of dust control measures to be used during
construction.
         q.   Description of water conservation measures to be employed in the
subdivision.
         r.   Statement as to whether all or any portion of the subdivision is
located in the vicinity of a military airport 1  or in a high noise or accident
potential zone 2  or in the vicinity of a public airport 3 .
         s.   Statement as to whether the subdivision is in a designated PM10
area (particulate matter of 10 microns or less).
      5.   Related Exhibits/Other Submittals: In addition to the tentative plat
and letter of intent, the following submittals are required to complete the
application.
         a.   A check made payable to the city of Tombstone for the tentative
plat processing fee in the amount as set forth in the adopted planning and
zoning fee schedule.
         b.   A hydrology report if requested by the Tombstone department of
public works.
         c.   Copy of the instrument to be used to maintain common areas is
recommended to be submitted as part of the tentative plat submittal. A
homeowners' association is required for maintenance of conservation areas,
private roads and other private improvements unless some other entity
acceptable to the city is proposed.
         d.   Copy of all proposed instruments creating covenants,
restrictions, reservations, easements, owners' association or other conditions,
if any is recommended to be submitted as part of the tentative plat submittal.
         e.   Copies of required 401, 404, NPDES, intent to clear and other
required federal and state permits or applications.
         f.   Preliminary title report no more than thirty (30) days old.
         g.   If required in an adopted city land use plan, documentation from
the Arizona state museum, the state historic preservation office (SHPO), or a
qualified archaeologist, as to whether or not there are any known historical or
archaeological sites within the area to be developed and completion of a field
survey if determined warranted by these agencies.
   D.   Tentative Plat Review:
      1.   Composition And Duties Of Planning And Zoning Commission: It shall
be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to examine all required
tentative and final plat submittals and exhibits and to determine compliance
with these subdivision regulations and other applicable ordinances and
regulations. A recommendation on the tentative or final plat through the
committee chair, shall not be forwarded to the planning and zoning commission
and city council until consensus is reached among all members of the
subdivision committee that the submittals comply with all applicable
regulations or that the waivers requested are reasonable and adequately
justified. Planning and zoning commission meetings shall be scheduled as needed
with the applicant. The subdivision committee is hereby established and shall
consist of the following members or their duly authorized representatives.
The planning and zoning commission, who shall:
         a.   Review applications for completeness and transmit applications
and revisions for review.
         b.   Serve as the city's project representative throughout the
process.
         c.   Review all submittals for compliance with the comprehensive plan,
subdivision and zoning regulations and other applicable plans and planning
ordinances.
         d.   Confirm that property taxes are current prior to final plat
approval.
         e.   Confirm that road names and road name signs comply with the rural
addressing ordinance.
         f.   Represent other reviewing agencies that are not formal members of
the subdivision committee.
         g.   Schedule and chair subdivision committee meetings.
         h.   Make staff presentations on behalf of the subdivision committee
to the planning and zoning commission and city council.
         i.   Ensure that the final plat and related documents are recorded and
copies distributed to the subdivision committee members.
         j.   Inspect and approve those on and off site improvements not
reviewed by the building inspector or department of public works.
         k.   Ensure that requirements of other applicable agencies represented
by the planning director have been completed prior to sale of lots.
         l.   When applicable, release assurances to allow lot sales upon
completion of city inspections and approval of all on and off site subdivision
improvements.
         m.   Confirm that a lighting district has been established prior to
lot release, if required.
         n.   Maintain complete files.
      2.   Building Inspector And Department Of Public Works: The building
inspector and department of public works, who shall:
         a.   Review all submittals for compliance with all highway and
floodplain regulations.
         b.   With the planning director determine the adequacy of the traffic
analysis and the on and off site improvements identified in the report.
         c.   Review, approve or reject improvement plans.
         d.   Work with the project engineer to complete ongoing inspections at
appropriate times during construction of highway and floodplain related
improvements.
         e.   Receive project engineer certification that improvements are
constructed, tested, inspected and accepted according to the approved
improvement plans.
         f.   Monitor the condition of improvements during the first year after
completion and require repairs if necessary within that time period.
   E.   Transmittal List: The planning director shall ensure that all
interested agencies and parties are given an opportunity to review the
application. Agency representatives or interested parties may attend
subdivision committee meetings as nonvoting members. The planning director
shall represent their interests on the subdivision committee. The planning
director shall ask the applicant for additional copies of plats and supporting
documents if needed to transmit to these agencies. In addition to the
subdivision committee, the transmittal list may include, but is not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Standard Transmittal List:
         a.   City council.
         b.   Design review committees if established as part of an adopted
community plan.
         c.   Applicable fire protection provider by the Tombstone volunteer
fire department.
         d.   Utilities.
         e.   Agencies with existing easements on the property.
         f.   Natural resource conservation district.
         g.   Natural resource conservation service.
      2.   Other Agencies As Applicable:
         a.   Arizona department of environmental quality.
         b.   Arizona department of transportation.
         c.   Arizona department of water resources.
         d.   Arizona state fire marshal.
         e.   Arizona state land department.
         f.   Arizona department of agriculture.
         g.   Army corps of engineers.
         h.   Bureau of land management.
         i.   County attorney's office.
         j.   Applicable school district.
         k.   Applicable law enforcement agency.
         l.   University of Arizona cooperative extension water wise program or
other agency designated to review water conservation measures.
         m.   Other interested parties identified in the review process.
   F.   Commission Action On The Tentative Plat: Upon review of the tentative
plat and supporting documents the commission may recommend to the city council:
      1.   Approval of the tentative plat as presented, if they find that the
tentative plat and supporting documents comply with these subdivision
regulations and other applicable regulations.
      2.   Approval of the tentative plat with conditions, as specifically
noted.
      3.   Denial of the tentative plat, providing the applicant with a list of
modifications, findings and considerations that must be addressed before
resubmittal to the commission.
   G.   Commission Action On Waivers: Upon review of waiver(s), the commission
may forward to the city council a recommendation of:
      1.   Unconditional approval.
      2.   Unconditional denial, stating the factors favoring denial.
      3.   Conditional approval, stating the recommended conditions.
   H.   Council Review Of The Tentative Plat And Waivers: Upon receipt of the
commission's tentative plat and waiver recommendations, the city council may:
      1.   Find that the tentative plat, waiver(s) and/or supporting documents
comply with these subdivision regulations and recommend approval as presented.
      2.   Recommend approval of the tentative plat and/or waiver(s) with
conditions, as specifically noted.
      3.   Recommend denial of the tentative plat and/or waiver(s), providing
the applicant with a list of modifications, findings and considerations that
must be addressed before resubmittal to the commission.
   I.   Commission Review Of Final Plat: Final plats are reviewed directly by
the city council if the final plat conforms substantially to the tentative
plat, waivers and conditions approved by the commission.
   J.   Waivers: The city council may approve, disapprove or conditionally
approve waivers to the terms of these regulations so long as they are not
contrary to the public interest, and where due to unique conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions and requirements of these subdivision regulations
would result in undue hardship.
      1.   Waiver requests shall be submitted with the tentative plat
application accompanied by a technical analysis justifying the waiver with an
explanation of likely impacts.
      2.   The commission shall provide a recommendation to the city council on
all waivers.
      3.   Waivers will be forwarded to the city council for action with the
tentative plat upon recommendation by the planning commission and when
accompanied by the appropriate processing fee as set forth in the adopted
planning and zoning fee schedule.
   K.   Effective Period Of Tentative Plat And Plat Extensions:
      1.   Approval of residential tentative plats shall be effective for two
(2) years.
      2.   Approval of commercial tentative plats shall be effective for three
(3) years.
      3.   The planning and zoning commission may grant one 1-year time
extension upon written request by the subdivider if:
         a.   The applicant demonstrates substantial progress towards final
plat approval; and
         b.   The subdivision is in conformance with current city regulations
or the developer agrees to conform to current city regulations.
      4.   Additional one year time extensions must be approved by the planning
and zoning commission.
      5.   Extensions shall be accompanied by the fee set out in the planning
department fee schedule. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-8461.
2 2. ARS § 28-8461.
3 3. ARS § 28-8486.
13-1-7: FINAL PLAT; GENERAL SUBMITTALS AND REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to describe the final plat
procedures common to all subdivision options unless otherwise specified in
subsequent sections describing subdivision options.
      1.   Submittals (Summary Only, Review Details In Sections That Follow):
         a.   Final plat application:
            Final plat fifteen (15) copies: Twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36") (folded to 8.5 inches by 11 inches) and one copy: eleven
inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17") (subsequent review of revised plats
require one 11" x 17" version and as many full size copies as determined
necessary).
            Final plat fee and improvement plan review fee.
            Final hydrology report, revised as required during tentative plat
review.
            Copy state department of water resources determination of water
adequacy.
            Traffic analysis if a revision was required.
            Covenants, conditions and restrictions and homeowners' association
bylaws (CC&R's), if any.
            Boundary closures and line table.
            Mechanism to ensure improvements.
            Improvement plans/signage plan (it is recommended that these plans
be submitted in advance of the final plat because improvement plan review can
take a minimum of 6 weeks).
      2.   Approximate Review Schedule: The initial review takes approximately
six (6) weeks (excluding review of the improvement plans) and is comprised of
the following steps:
         a.   Submittal meeting with planning staff to determine if application
is complete. If complete:
            (1)   Within one week: Planning department will transmit
application for review to the subdivision committee.
            (2)   Within three (3) weeks: A staff only subdivision committee
meeting will be held.
            (3)   Within five (5) weeks: Written comments will be provided.
            (4)   Within six (6) weeks: The subdivision committee will meet
with the applicant.
         b.   The time frame of subsequent reviews is as needed depending on
the complexity of the revisions.
         c.   When the subdivision committee finds all applicable requirements
are satisfactorily met, the plat shall be set for action at the next scheduled
city council meeting if all required materials are received at least fifteen
(15) working days in advance.
   B.   Substantial Conformance With Tentative Plat: A final plat is the legal
document recorded in the city of Tombstone showing the survey data for all
lots, streets, common areas, flood prone areas and easements and any general
notes pertinent to buyers. A final plat must be in substantial conformance with
the tentative plat approved by the commission. Any final plat or portion
thereof found by the planning director not to be in substantial conformance
with the approved tentative plat must be resubmitted to the commission for
approval. Substantial conformance means:
      1.   The number of lots does not increase by more than ten percent (10%).
      2.   The layout of the lots does not vary in a manner that affects other
aspects of the subdivision such as access to conservation areas, drainage or
circulation.
      3.   Drainage and road right of way dedications and easements are
substantially as depicted on the tentative plat.
      4.   The circulation system does not vary in a manner that affects other
aspects of the subdivision or overall area circulation and access.
      5.   The improvement standards, percent and layout of common areas,
conservation areas and water conservation measures meet or exceed those
approved by the commission.
   C.   Final Plat Submittal:
      1.   Final Plat Submittal Meeting: The applicant shall schedule an
appointment with the planning and zoning commission to submit final plat
applications. An incomplete application will not be processed. The planning and
zoning commission representative shall determine if a submittal is complete at
the submittal meeting. A complete final plat shall include all the requirements
listed in this section.
      2.   Final Plat Submittal Requirements:
         a.   The original final plat submittal and all subsequent revised
submittals shall include:
            Fifteen (15) copies of the final plat that are twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36") in size and folded to 8.5 by 11 inches in
size.
            One 11 by 17 inch reduced version.
            Subsequent revisions shall include one 11 by 17 inch reduced
version and additional full size copies as needed.
         b.   Two (2) signed copies of a Mylar version and three (3) signed
blue line copies and one copy on a CD or 3.5 inch floppy disc compatible with
the county's current version of AutoCAD must be submitted after the plat is
approved by the subdivision committee and before the plat is presented for city
council action, along with original copies of the subdivision security and
other documents to be recorded with the final plat.
         c.   The following information shall be clearly and legibly drawn on
the final plat at a scale of one inch equals forty feet (1" = 40'), one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50'), one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), or
one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200') as necessary to show all required
details.
         d.   Show on sheet number one only:
            (1)   Metes and bounds legal description of all property being
subdivided.
            (2)   Key maps showing:
               Location of the subdivision within the context of the
surrounding area.
               The relationship of the sheets when the plat consists of two (2)
or more sheets.
            (3)   All applicable standard notes listed below and other notes
required by the subdivision committee including all notes on the tentative plat
needing disclosure to property owners during a title search. This subdivision
has private streets that are not maintained by the city of Tombstone. The city
of Tombstone is held harmless for safety and vehicle damage from private
streets.
            (4)   The minimum floor elevations including basements shall be (#)
inches above the highest natural ground elevation at the building pad.
            (5)   No building shall be oriented in such a way as to block the
natural storm runoff.
            (6)   All lots are subject to the requirements of the hydrology
study on file with the department of public works.
            (7)   The county has approved the hydrology study and the city
council has approved the signage and marking plan.
            (8)   Lots, tracts, conservation areas and common areas cannot be
further subdivided.
            (9)   The hydrology and culverts have been designed to pass the
100-year storm so that it deposits twelve inches (12") or less of water across
any road.
            (10)   Previously recorded lots (list lot numbers) will be
superseded by (subdivision name) and will no longer legally exist effective on
the day of the final recording of (subdivision name).
            (11)   Existing platted streets not incorporated into the
subdivision shall be abandoned separately through the city council abandonment
process.
            (12)   Individual sewage disposal systems are proposed (septic tank
and leach field). Prior to building permit issuance, individual percolation or
soil evaluations will be required for all lots. A minimum one hundred foot
(100') setback is required from all wells and fifty feet (50') from all lot
lines.
            (13)   If sewage disposal systems other than conventional leach
field systems are required, Arizona department of environmental quality (ADEQ)
approval is required prior to construction of the system.
            (14)   Dust and erosion control measures shall be employed during
and postconstruction and shall comply with the city of Tombstone land clearing
ordinance. It is the subdivider's responsibility to obtain additional state or
federal permits. Zoning is (type) and shall remain.
            (15)   Name of the subdivider and property owner if different.
            (16)   Name, registration number, seal and signature of a
professional civil engineer or land surveyor licensed to practice in the state
of Arizona.
            (17)   Title, subdivision name, scale, north arrow, legend, sheet
number and number of sheets comprising the map.
         e.   Date of plat (updated on subsequent revisions and noted as second
revised plat, etc., . . .).
         f.   Primary control points or descriptions and ties to such control
points, to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat
shall be referred. Where a coordinate system has been established by the a
licensed surveyor, primary control points shall reference at least two (2)
corners of the subdivision and be tied by course and distance to a section
corner, a quarter section corner or established city or county survey monument.
The final plat shall include a description of the corner marker indicating how
the bearings were determined.
         g.   Tract boundary lines fully balanced and closed, showing right of
way lines of streets, easements and other rights of way, and property lines of
all lots and other sites with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection
angles and radii, arcs, semitangents and central angles of all curves.
         h.   Curve tables and line tables.
         i.   Subdivision boundary.
         j.   Streets including:
            (1)   Sight distance triangle easements at all road intersections.
            (2)   Name and right of way width of each street or other right of
way.
         k.   Designation and right of way width of all drainageways, detention
basins and whether private or dedicated to the public.
         l.   Boundaries of all areas subject to inundation or storm water
overflow. Erosion setbacks and 100-year floodplain limits to be depicted in a
surveyable manner.
         m.   One foot (1') no access easements on arterial and city collector
streets unless otherwise agreed to by the planning and zoning commission and
department of public works.
         n.   Purpose and dimensions of all easements, clearly labeled and
identified, and if already of record, proper reference to the records given; if
not of record, a statement of such easement shall appear on the first sheet.
         o.   Area to be cleared. (Clearing cannot occur until the improvement
plans are substantially approved.)
         p.   Lot numbering and lot area shown within the respective boundary
of each lot.
         q.   Location and description of monuments, lot corners and outer
survey points.
         r.   Block numbering or lettering, and the block area shown within the
respective boundary of each block.
         s.   Area and number of tracts, if any, and their proposed use.
         t.   Common areas reserved or dedicated for parks, schools or other
public uses including private streets and conservation areas.
         u.   All lots not intended for sale or reserved for private purposes
and all parcels offered for dedication for any purpose, public or private shall
be so designated.
         v.   Other notes in support of proposed covenants, conditions and
restrictions such as building envelopes, landscaping restrictions and
restrictions to certain types of structures and lot sizes.
         w.   Any other items as required by law or as required by the
subdivision committee.
         x.   Phasing, with each phase designed to stand alone in the event
that other phases are not completed.
         y.   Existing structures, walls, ponds, tanks, wells, irrigation
canals, laterals, ditches and dikes, streets, paths, trails and utilities with
an indication of whether these items are to remain, be altered or removed.
         z.   All new subdivisions in Cochise County and cities in Cochise
County must be cleared with the rural addressing division of Cochise County
planning department. All new street names must be cleared with rural addressing
division also. All new road names shall have directionals and suffixes. New
roads shall have no punctuation in them. New roads shall be no longer than
twenty (20) characters with spaces, directional and suffix. Rural addressing
will no longer accept new roads that start with Calle, Camino, Via, and roads
that include De La. Any new road that aligns with an existing road will have
the same name.
   D.   Certificates And Acknowledgments: The following certificates and
acknowledgments shall appear on the final plat:
      1.   Certificate consenting to the preparation and recordation of the
final plat and offering for dedication all streets, drainageways, easements,
common areas and other parcels intended for public uses, as shown on the final
plat acknowledged by all persons holding title by deed to the lands. If lands
dedicated are held in trust, the trustee shall sign the certificate. If the
lands to be dedicated are mortgaged or subject to any liens, the mortgagee and
all lien holders shall also sign the certificate. The execution of the
certification shall be acknowledged and certified by a notary public.
      2.   Certificate signed and sealed by a professional land surveyor
licensed to practice in the state of Arizona under whose direction the survey,
subdivision and plat of the land described on the said plat was made including:
         a.   A statement that the plat is a correct representation of all the
exterior boundaries of the land surveyed and the subdivision.
         b.   A statement that the surveyor prepared the description of the
lots shown on the plat and certifying to their correctness.
         c.   A statement that the bearings shown on the plat are expressed in
relation to the true meridian or a previously established meridian or bearing
and that all monuments shown on the plat are actually located in the ground and
their location, size and material are correctly shown.
         d.   A statement that all lots are staked or shall be staked in
accordance with the provisions of these subdivision regulations.
         e.   The registration number, seal and signature of the licensed
professional land surveyor.
      3.   Certificates to be signed by the planning and zoning commission,
mayor, city clerk and city council, to certify that the plat complies with all
requirements within their jurisdiction.
      4.   A certificate to be signed by the mayor and attested to by the city
clerk to certify that said city council approved the final plat and showing the
date of said approval.
      5.   A certificate to be executed by the county recorder showing the
date, time of day, fee number, book and page number of recordation.
      6.   If an assurance agreement is used to provide security for
improvements, a block to write recording data including docket number and date
recorded.
   E.   Related Submittals, Reports And Exhibits:
      1.   A check made payable to the city of Tombstone for the final plat
processing fee and improvement plan review fee in the amount as set forth in
the adopted city's fee schedules.
      2.   A copy of the engineer's or surveyor's calculations showing the
closure of the subdivision boundary and of each block, and all other excluded
or dedicated tracts and rights of way, to be depicted on the final plat or as a
separate document. The error of closure and the area bounded shall be shown for
each calculation. The relative error of the unbalanced field measurement
closure for the subdivision boundary shall be included.
      3.   A copy of the report prepared by the Arizona department of water
resources stating that an adequate supply of water exists for the projected
needs of the subdivision.
      4.   A copy of the final hydrology report approved by the building
inspector.
      5.   Three (3) copies of improvement and sign plans for private and
public improvements. If improvements will be constructed in phases, plans for
phase one at a minimum, are required.
      6.   Letters of the intent to serve from utility companies and fire
districts serving the subdivision.
      7.   Confirmation that appropriate improvement plans have been provided
to utility providers.
      8.   Arizona department of environmental quality certificates to
construct water and sanitary sewer systems, as applicable.
      9.   Copy of an archaeological field survey completed by a qualified
archaeologist acceptable to the Arizona state museum or state historic
preservation office, if required in an adopted county plan.
      10.   The final original signed version of the instrument used to assure
completion of public improvements.
      11.   If conservation areas are to be maintained by another entity,
originals of the agreement and conservation easement that shall be recorded
with the final plat.
      12.   The final original signed version of the covenants, conditions and
restrictions.
      13.   Documentation that property taxes are current.
   F.   Final Plat Review:
      1.   Staff And Agency Review:
         a.   The procedure for staff and agency review of the final plat shall
be the same as for the tentative plat.
         b.   When members of the subdivision committee find that all
applicable requirements have been satisfactorily met, they shall sign the plat.
      2.   City Council Review And Action:
         a.   Upon approval by the subdivision committee, the planning director
shall schedule the final plat, the offers of dedication and agreements, and
guarantees and securities for required improvements, for review at the next
available meeting of the city council.
         b.   Upon review of the final plat and the offers of dedication and
agreements, and guarantees and securities for required improvements the city
council may: 1) find that the final plat and the offers of dedication and
agreements, and guarantees and securities for required improvements are in
substantial conformance with the tentative plat approval and comply with these
subdivision regulations and other ordinances or requirements and approve the
final plat as presented; 2) approve the final plat with conditions, as
specifically noted; or 3) deny the final plat, providing the applicant with a
list of modifications, findings and considerations that must be addressed for
resubmittal to the planning and zoning commission.
         c.   Upon approval by the city council shall so certify and attest
such action upon the final plat.
      3.   Appeals: The city council shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement,
decision, grant or refusal made by the commission or any official in the
administration of these subdivision regulations.
         a.   An appeal shall be made in writing setting forth the particulars
and the reasons for the appeal and include the fee adopted in the planning and
zoning commission fee schedule.
         b.   Hearings on such cases shall be at such times as may be set by
the city council, but no later than within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
appeal.
         c.   Notice of not less than fifteen (15) days or more than thirty
(30) days of the hearing date shall be given to the appellant, the commission
or officials concerned.
      4.   Minor Final Plat Amendments; Combination Of Lots: Any recorded
subdivision plat may be amended to:
         a.   Correct an error in any course or distance or other necessary
item that was omitted.
         b.   Correct a drafting, graphic, technical or similar type error.
         c.   Adjust a drainage or maintenance easement.
         d.   Combine or reconfigure lots so long as:
            (1)   The external subdivision boundaries remain the same.
            (2)   The number of lots does not increase.
            (3)   The utility easements and street access to the combined lots
are not changed.
The planning director is hereby authorized to approve and record minor plat
amendments as follows:
         a.   Two (2) signed copies of a Mylar version, three (3) signed blue
line copies and one copy on a CD or 3.5 inch floppy disc compatible with the
county's current version of AutoCAD of the final plat shall be submitted.
         b.   The fee as set forth in the adopted planning and zoning fee
schedule shall be submitted.
         c.   The amended plat shall contain a certification block for the
signatures of the planning director and city engineer and shall be marked
"AMENDED - PLAT OF ~". If more than one amended plat is necessary, the
successive plats shall be titled "SECOND AMENDED PLAT OF ~", and follow in
numerical order.
         d.   The amended plat shall contain a revised legal description for
the new lots.
         e.   The amended plat shall be signed by the planning director and
director of public works for certification that the only changes on the amended
plat are technical changes as authorized above.
         f.   After obtaining the signatures of the planning director and
director of public works, the amended plat shall be recorded in the office of
the county recorder, without further action by the city council.
      5.   Changes Other Than Minor Amendments: Changes to final plats other
than minor plat amendments shall be processed as a new subdivision application.
If the planning director determines that the proposed amendments are
substantially in conformance with the original tentative plat, the approved
tentative plat may be used and the amendment can proceed directly to the city
council as a revised final plat. If the amendment is not in conformance with
the tentative plat, it shall be presented first to the planning commission as a
tentative plat and then to the city council as a final plat. Changes requiring
a new plat include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Abandonment of roadways or right of way dedications that affect
overall circulation and cannot be handled through the city roadway abandonment
process.
         b.   Any decrease in conservation areas, common areas or amenities.
         c.   Any increase in the number of lots.
         d.   Any reconfiguration of lots, roadways, tracts, drainageways and
conservation areas that is not in substantial conformance with the tentative
plat.
         e.   Any change other than those specifically defined as minor
amendments.
      6.   Abandonment By The Property Owner Or City:
         a.   To abandon a recorded final plat in part or in whole, the
property owner(s) shall submit a written request to the planning director along
with:
            (1)   Two (2) signed copies of a Mylar version, three (3) signed
blue line copies and one copy on CD or 3.5 inch floppy disc compatible with the
county's current version of AutoCAD of the plat and other related documents as
required designating those lots, roadways, public right of way, easements and
other features, which are proposed for abandonment.
            (2)   The fee as set forth in the adopted planning and zoning fee
schedule.
         b.   The planning director may initiate the abandonment of a recorded
final plat if required improvements or a portion thereof have not been
completed in a timely fashion or if due to the passage of not less than ten
(10) years, without substantial sales and improvements, it appears that the
subdivision or portion thereof, will not be developed as originally intended.
         c.   The city council may abandon a recorded final plat if required
improvements have not been completed in a timely fashion or it is otherwise
proposed for abandonment by the planning director.
         d.   The owner(s) shall be given thirty (30) days' notice of such
actions.
         e.   The abandonment request shall be reviewed by the planning and
zoning commission to determine that roadways, public right of way, easements
and other items that serve a public interest are not abandoned.
         f.   Upon approval by the subdivision committee, the abandonment
request shall be presented to the city council for action to approve,
disapprove or conditionally approve the request. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-8: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to describe the requirements
common to all subdivision options except as these requirements are specifically
excluded in other sections of these regulations.
   B.   Subdivisions In Adopted Plans: Subdivisions within the boundaries of
community, regional, master development and other plans adopted as amendments
to the comprehensive plan shall be developed in a manner that is consistent
with the guidelines adopted within these plans.
   C.   Contiguous Property Under Same Ownership/Continuation Of Public Access:
      1.   Portions of any contiguous property within the ownership of the
subdivider shall be included within the boundaries of the subdivision when
needed or required for any circulation, drainage or flood control facilities or
logical continuation of conservation areas.
      2.   The subdivider shall submit a development plan for portions of
contiguous property owned by the subdivider, but not included within the
subdivision boundaries, to be reviewed by the commission and approved by the
city council. This development plan shall demonstrate that:
         a.   The remaining land is of a size and shape such that it can be
developed with a use that is compatible with surrounding development and can
meet the specifications of other applicable ordinances and regulations; and
         b.   Public access such as arterial and collector streets, trails and
sidewalks shall be continued from contiguous property and designed to be
adequate to serve future development.
   D.   On Site And Off Site Improvements:
      1.   On Site Improvements: Subdividers shall construct and provide all on
site improvements including those along subdivision boundaries as lawfully
required by the city. These improvements may include, but are not limited to:
         a.   On site streets and boundary streets;
         b.   Street name signs and traffic regulatory signs, markings, traffic
control signals, streetlights when required, and other traffic control devices;
         c.   Drainage and erosion improvements;
         d.   Utilities;
         e.   Water conservation measures; and
         f.   Lot staking and survey monuments.
      2.   Off Site Improvements: Subdividers shall construct and provide all
off site improvements reasonably related to the impacts of the new subdivision
as lawfully required by the city. These improvements may include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   Off site streets impacted by the subdivision traffic, including
resurfacing and widening;
         b.   Turn lanes, turn bays and traffic lights when warranted;
         c.   Drainage and off site erosion improvements;
         d.   Water conservation measures;
         e.   Dust abatement during construction;
         f.   Sidewalks, curbs, gutters and trails when required; and
         g.   Adequate water supply and distribution systems, sanitary sewer
and sewage disposal and utilities, as required.
   E.   Streets And Circulation:
      1.   Traffic Analysis: An analysis of traffic levels and distribution may
be needed to evaluate the impacts of the subdivision traffic. The analysis may
address the following information and any other information the planning
director and department of public works to determine necessary to identify
necessary street improvements.
         a.   Current average daily traffic on the streets serving the
subdivision.
         b.   Average estimated daily traffic to be generated by the
subdivision using traffic generation standards in the most current version of
the institution of transportation engineers "Trip Generation Manual" unless
otherwise justified by the applicant based on the type of development.
         c.   Estimates of peak hour or peak seasonal traffic generation.
         d.   Level of service of existing streets serving the subdivision
before and after introduction of subdivision traffic.
         e.   Adverse effects upon traffic flow along the streets abutting the
site resulting from traffic entering and leaving the site.
         f.   Current condition of existing streets serving the site.
         g.   Conformity to applicable policies of the comprehensive plan or
other approved plans if any.
         h.   Existing and anticipated traffic patterns on site and in the
surrounding area.
         i.   Future circulation needs into and around the surrounding area for
current or potential future development.
         j.   Nature of the anticipated on site and off site improvements to be
constructed.
         k.   If deemed necessary, the county engineer may require conformance
with the Arizona department of transportation "Traffic Impact Analysis Manual".
      2.   Circulation And Layout:
         a.   Subdivision design shall provide public streets of a type and in
locations adequate to accommodate current and projected future circulation
needs within the subdivision and the surrounding area.
         b.   Access into the subdivision from off site streets shall be
sufficient to facilitate emergency access to all lots.
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) means of access, built to the standards
required by the department of public works is required for all residential
subdivisions.
            (2)   All nonresidential subdivisions shall provide a second means
of access built to Cochise County road construction standards and
specifications for public improvements.
         c.   Nonlocal traffic on local streets shall be discouraged by the use
of appropriate traffic calming methods and road layout design.
         d.   Half streets or partial width rights of way shall be prohibited
except where necessary to provide right of way, to complete a road pattern
already begun or to ensure reasonable development of adjoining parcels. Where a
platted half street abuts the proposed subdivision, the remaining half width
shall be platted within the subdivision.
         e.   Adequate access shall be provided to each lot through public or
private streets.
         f.   Direct access from individual lots to streets that are identified
or function as collectors and arterial streets shall be prohibited through
subdivision design or via a one foot (1') no access easement.
         g.   Corner lots shall access onto local streets.
         h.   Road design shall be compatible with approach grades, drainage,
bridges, or future grade separations, where a subdivision abuts or contains the
right of way of a railroad, limited access highway or irrigation canal.
         i.   Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular turnaround area
with a radius of at least fifty two feet (52').
         j.   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed six hundred feet (600') in length
from the entrance to the circumference of the turnaround area.
         k.   Block lengths shall facilitate overall circulation and emergency
access. Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand five hundred feet (1,500')
except in rural subdivisions (see definition) where block lengths shall not
exceed two thousand six hundred forty feet (2,640') (1/2 mile).
         l.   Adequate sight distance triangles shall be designed and
maintained at all road intersections.
         m.   Community mailboxes with an adequate pullout area to remove
vehicles from through traffic are encouraged and may be required if deemed
necessary by the department of public works; they shall be located on local
streets rather than collector or arterial streets.
      3.   Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters And Other Access:
         a.   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters are required in all nonresidential
subdivisions along the front of the buildings and connecting all separate
buildings and parking areas.
         b.   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters are required on local and collector
streets for residential subdivisions when the lot size is one-half (1/2) acre
or smaller.
         c.   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters are required on streets that are
identified or function as arterial streets.
         d.   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters are required in residential
subdivisions when required by the department of public works.
         e.   Sidewalks may include utility easements.
         f.   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the department of public works standards and specifications for
public improvements as amended from time to time.
         g.   Sidewalks may be constructed after construction of residential
improvements if necessary to prevent destruction during site construction. The
planning director is authorized to accept a bond or certified check based on
the estimated cost to construct sidewalks in lieu of other security for the
project improvements.
         h.   In addition to these requirements, sidewalks or other types of
access shall be required if otherwise specified in these regulations, if
addressed in applicable adopted plans and/or determined necessary to provide
safe access to schools, parks, conservation areas, commercial services,
playgrounds or other nearby public areas.
      4.   Private Streets And Drainageways:
         a.   Private streets shall be constructed to conform to requirements
of the department of public works.
         b.   Private drainageways shall be constructed to conform to the
proper engineering standards unless otherwise stipulated within these
regulations.
         c.   Private streets and drainageways shall be constructed according
to improvement plans approved by the department of public works.
         d.   Prior to sale of lots or release of a bond or other assurances,
the subdivision engineer shall certify that the private streets and
drainageways have been constructed according to the improvement plans approved
by the department of public works.
         e.   A private street shall not be allowed if the road is needed for
overall neighborhood or regional circulation. Streets identified as, or that
function as collector or arterial streets, shall not be private.
         f.   A private drainageway shall not be allowed if needed to address
overall area or regional drainage concerns.
         g.   A note shall be placed on the final plat stating that the city
does not maintain private streets or drainageways and holding the city harmless
for safety and vehicle damage from private streets.
         h.   The developer shall provide adequate reliable means of long term
maintenance for any subdivision private streets or drainageways, either through
a homeowners' association or otherwise.
      5.   Required Road, And Regulatory Sign And Markings:
         a.   All signs and markings shall comply with the "Manual Of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD).
         b.   The developer shall install:
            (1)   Street name signs including directional information at all
street intersections.
            (2)   Stop signs at the intersection of all streets with collector
and arterial streets, at a minimum.
            (3)   Speed limit signs on all streets identified or functioning as
city collector and arterial streets at the entry to the subdivision, and on
local streets at egress from collector or arterial streets.
            (4)   Other regulatory signs and markings as required by the city
engineer.
         c.   The developer shall pay his or her fair share of traffic lights
installed at the intersection of all streets with collector and arterial
streets, if determined to be warranted by the department of public works.
         d.   Location and design of road name and regulatory signs and
markings shall be depicted on improvement plans and/or sign plans.
      6.   Road Names And Addresses:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall approve all road names.
         b.   All new road and street names must also be cleared with the rural
addressing division of Cochise County planning department. All new road and
street names shall have directionals and suffixes. New roads shall have no
punctuation in them. New roads shall be no longer than twenty (20) characters
with spaces, directional and suffix. Rural addressing will not accept new roads
or streets that start with Calle, Camino, Via or that include De La. Any new
road or street that aligns with an existing road will have the same name.
         c.   The city shall provide subdivision addresses before final plat
approval.
   F.   Street Lighting: All street lighting shall be in conformance with the
requirements of the department of public works.
   G.   Hydrology Requirements: The classification and design of drainageways
and designation of design storm frequencies shall be based on the department of
public works and proper engineering design. A hydrology report, to be submitted
with the tentative plat, may be required.
   H.   Health Requirements: The rules and regulations of the Cochise County
health department and the Arizona department of environment quality (ADEQ) are
applicable to subdivision design. Such rules and regulations shall be deemed
minimum standards. Applicants are advised to initiate early and continuous
coordination with ADEQ. Prior to approving the tentative plat and final plat,
the county health department shall review the application for compliance with
all applicable county and state rules and regulations that are enforced by that
department.
      1.   Sewage Disposal:
         a.   Individual sewage disposal systems, including septic tank systems
shall not be permitted or installed on lots of less than one acre (43,560
square feet) in size excluding streets and easements, when both a well and
individual sewage disposal system are located on the same lot, unless ADEQ
approves an alternative wastewater treatment system such as a denitrification
or filtration system.
         b.   If lots are connected to a community water system, individual
sewage disposal systems, including septic tank systems are permitted on lots of
thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet or larger in size excluding streets
and easements.
         c.   For lots of less than thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet in
size, excluding streets and easements, a connection to a city approved sanitary
sewer system or other system approved by the Cochise County health department
or Arizona department of environmental quality, is required.
         d.   Subdivisions shall be connected to available sewage disposal
systems if located within four hundred feet (400') of the subdivision
boundaries, and with available capacity at the plant and in the distribution
lines.
         e.   The ADEQ "notice of intent to discharge and provisional
verification of general permit conformance" for the sewage disposal system
shall accompany the final plat, if applicable.
         f.   No building/use permit shall be issued for any subdivided lot of
less than thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet in size excluding streets
and easements, unless there is a connection to a city approved sanitary sewer
system or other system approved by the Cochise County health department or
Arizona department of environmental quality, is operated and maintained in
accordance with county and ADEQ regulations.
         g.   Except when sewage disposal is to be provided via individual
septic systems, lots shall not be sold from any phase until the sewage disposal
system is completed with connections to the edge of each lot and ADEQ has
issued a "verification of general permit conformance".
      2.   Water Distribution Systems:
         a.   Unless otherwise specified in these regulations, applicants shall
ensure that water is available from a city approved water delivery system to
each and every subdivided lot.
         b.   Subdivisions shall connect to city water distribution systems.
         c.   No building/use permit shall be issued for any subdivided lot of
less than one acre (43,560 square feet) requiring an approved water delivery
system, until the water delivery system is completed as required by applicable
regulations.
      3.   Water Adequacy: Adequacy of water will be determined by the
department of public works.
   I.   Utilities:
      1.   Adequate utilities or facilities, furnishing for the subdivision,
electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, sewage disposal, or
flood control, shall be provided.
      2.   Each subdivision plat shall include easements that are adequate for
all necessary utilities, including access for maintenance and repair of such
facilities. Easements shall be located along both sides of street frontages and
be at least ten feet (10') wide or as otherwise required by the utility
company.
      3.   The electric, telephone and cable services shall be installed
underground except where it is demonstrated to be infeasible from an
engineering, operational or economic standpoint.
      4.   Utilities shall not be allowed in drainageways, drainage easements,
grader ditches and flow paths.
      5.   All required utility connections shall be provided to the edge of
each lot.
      6.   Each cul-de-sac street shall be provided with a utility easement
designed to prevent dead end mains unless waived by the utility companies.
      7.   All service shall be in conformity with the administrative rules and
regulations of the Arizona corporation commission.
   J.   Screening, Fencing And Cattle Guards:
      1.   When a residential subdivision borders an existing commercial or
industrial establishment, perimeter screening by an opaque solid wall or fence
with a minimum height of six feet (6') from grade, shall be required. The
screen shall be constructed out of standard materials or other acceptable
materials approved by the city building official. The commission may approve an
existing vegetative screen if it meets the intent of creating a solid opaque
screen and is maintained in accordance with the city zoning regulations
(landscaping, planting and maintenance requirements).
      2.   Nonresidential subdivisions shall provide a solid opaque wall with a
minimum height of six feet (6') from grade along the perimeter of the
subdivision where abutting a residentially zoned area.
      3.   The developer shall obtain a building permit for subdivision gates,
walls and fences as required by the city zoning regulations.
      4.   Perimeter fencing or cattle guards on streets sufficient to protect
property and streets from the intrusion by livestock may be required if deemed
necessary by the planning director. Cattle guards shall be constructed to
conform with the Cochise County road construction standards and specifications
for public improvements as amended from time to time.
   K.   Fire Protection:
      1.   Fire Protection Requirements:
         a.   Subdivisions adjacent to the boundaries of a fire district shall
be annexed into the service area pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section
48-262 if acceptable to the district.
         b.   No subdivision with individual lot sizes of thirty six thousand
(36,000) square feet or less shall be established unless there are appropriate
provisions for fire protection service.
         c.   Fire protection improvements shall be subject to the same
financial assurances as other subdivision improvements.
         d.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions for subdivisions within an
area served by a volunteer fire department shall require individual property
owners to pay fire department fees, to be collected and paid to the fire
department by the homeowners' association or through some other enforceable
mechanism acceptable to the fire department until such time as they become a
district.
         e.   Fire protection provisions shall be described during the
tentative plat process and shown on improvement plans.
         f.   Water supply appliances provided within the subdivision shall be
located per the fire code applicable to the serving fire district or adopted by
the city at the time of development.
         g.   Water supply appliances when required shall be compatible with
the equipment of the agency providing service.
   WATER FLOW REQUIREMENTS
 
Lot Sizes                 Water Flow                 Duration Of Flow
                          250 gallons per minute
                          calculated at 20 psi
36,000 square feet or     flowing pressure in excess System capable of
smaller lots              of the normal estimated    sustaining this flow for 2
                          water consumption of       hours
                          residences in the
                          subdivision
                          250 gallons per minute
                          calculated at 20 psi
                          flowing pressure in excess
                          of the normal estimated    System capable of
Larger than 36,000 square water consumption of       sustaining this flow for 2
feet to less than 2 acres residencesin the           hours is recommended
                          subdivision is
                          recommendedor at a minimum
                          a 36,000 gallon storage
                          tank is required
                          Some provision for a water
                          supply for fire protection
                          is recommended; if no
2 acres or larger lot     water supply is provided a
sizes                     note shall be placed on     
                          the final plat indicating
                          that a fire protection
                          water supply is not
                          provided
 
      2.   Emergency Vehicle Access Requirements/Gated Communities:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) means of access built in conformance to
Cochise County road construction standards and specifications for public
improvements are required for all subdivisions except in rural subdivisions
(see definition) and minor expedited residential subdivisions with twenty seven
(27) lots or fewer.
         b.   If streets pass under an arch, sign or overpass, a minimum
clearance of fourteen feet six inches (14'6") must be provided.
         c.   Emergency providers shall be provided with convenient and
reliable methods for access through subdivision gates without delay.
         d.   Gates shall be of a width that is in accordance with the uniform
building code or international fire code adopted at the time of development.
      3.   Subdivisions Not Within A Fire Protection Service Area:
         a.   For subdivisions with individual lot sizes greater than thirty
six thousand (36,000) square feet, if a fire district, volunteer fire
department or private protection service are unavailable other measures to
provide adequate fire protection may be approved by the city.
         b.   A note shall be placed on the final plat indicating that a fire
service provider is not available.
   L.   Water Conservation:
      1.   General:
         a.   Subdivisions shall conform to water conservation measures and
policies adopted in the city zoning regulations and policies of the city of
Tombstone comprehensive plan and other ordinances as adopted or as amended from
time to time.
         b.   Where applicable, water conservation measures as described below
shall be included in covenants, conditions and restrictions and depicted on the
tentative and final plats as part of a typical lot drawing or as a note on the
plat.
         c.   Where applicable, water conservation measures shall be enforced
by the homeowners' association.
         d.   The city shall enforce water conservation measures at permit
issuance, if approved as a condition of final plat approval.
         e.   Water conservation measures in addition to the ones described in
this section are encouraged.
         f.   Washing outdoor hard surfaces with water is prohibited.
         g.   Water efficient washing machines are required.
      2.   Landscaping: In street medians, hardscapes, conservation areas and
common areas:
         a.   Turf is only allowed for publicly used common areas.
         b.   Turf shall not be allowed in areas eight feet (8') wide or less.
         c.   Turf or high water use plants shall not be allowed on slopes that
exceed twenty five percent (25%).
         d.   Only plants on the city approved list, as updated from time to
time or other drought tolerant plants approved by the city shall be used.
         e.   Where irrigation is used, timers shall be installed.
         f.   Rainwater harvesting and reuse shall be utilized where practical.
         g.   Sprinkler heads shall be installed no closer than eight inches
(8") from impermeable surfaces.
         h.   Impermeable covering shall not be applied to any soil surfaces.
         i.   A minimum of a two inch (2") thick layer of porous mulch shall be
applied to all irrigated, nonturf areas.
      3.   Common Use Buildings:
         a.   All lavatory faucets shall be equipped with mechanisms that close
automatically after delivering not more than one quart of water.
         b.   Cooling systems that do not need a water source shall be used.
         c.   Outdoor misters are prohibited.
         d.   All hot water pipes shall be insulated.
         e.   All hot water pipes shall be recirculating and shall have hot
water pumps with timers along with adequate signage appropriately displayed on
the hot water heater identifying the pump and timer and include instructions
for use. On demand hot water systems are exempt from this requirement.
         f.   As adopted in the city zoning regulations, pool and spa covers
shall be used to prevent evaporation.
         g.   A gray water diversion valve with a pipe exiting to a potential
irrigated landscaped area shall be installed at a minimum, on washing machines,
with adequate educational signage prominently displayed if approved by the
Cochise County health department. The exit pipe shall be adequately marked to
indicate it as a nonpotable water pipe in conformance with Arizona department
of environmental standards.
   M.   Land Clearing: A note shall be placed on the tentative and final plats
stating that all land clearing shall be in conformance with the city of
Tombstone land clearing ordinance and clearing methods depicted on the
improvement plans and in the hydrology report. Clearing for subdivisions shall
not occur until the improvement plans are substantially approved.
   N.   Lots:
      1.   The lot area and minimum building setback lines shall conform to the
requirements of zoning and other applicable regulations.
      2.   The depth and width of lots shall be adequate to provide for off
street parking and loading requirements.
      3.   Double frontage lots, except corner lots, shall be prohibited on
streets that are identified or function as city collectors and arterials unless
a one foot (1') no access easement is recorded.
      4.   Lots cannot be further split.
      5.   In numbering lots, the following rules apply:
         a.   An Arabic numeral shall designate each lot.
         b.   Numbering shall follow in a continuous fashion within the
subdivision.
         c.   Common areas shall be designated by capital letters and be
designated in sequence within a subdivision starting with the letter "A".
   O.   Lot Corner Staking And Monument Improvements: The subdivider shall be
responsible for installing lot corner staking and monument improvements as
described below:
      1.   Lot corner staking shall be iron or steel bars, or iron pipes at
least fifteen inches (15") long and one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and shall
be set at all corners, angle points and points of curvature for each lot and
block within the subdivision, except for those points at which a monument is
found or installed.
      2.   Survey monuments shall be installed at:
         a.   All corners and angle points in the boundaries of the
subdivision.
         b.   The intersecting points of centerlines of streets.
         c.   The intersections of the rights of way lines of streets within
the boundaries of the plat.
         d.   At all points of curvature, points of tangency, points of
compound curvature, points of reverse curvature land angle points in the right
of way lines of streets.
   P.   Maintenance Of Common Areas:
      1.   An appropriate mechanism, homeowners' association or some other
method shall be required to ensure that common areas, including, but not
limited to, private streets and drainageways and conservation areas, are
maintained for the purposes intended, in a manner satisfactory to the planning
and zoning commission and the city council.
      2.   Enforceable covenants and restrictions shall specify the ownership
of the common areas and the responsibility for maintenance, taxes and
insurance. If an association is involved, the covenants and restrictions shall
include guarantees that any such association will not be dissolved without the
consent of the city.
      3.   The city may agree to enforce specific covenants and restrictions if
this provision is stated on the final plat as a condition of plat approval.
      4.   Thirty (30) days written notice to the city is required if
responsibility for the common areas is to be transferred. The city reserves the
right to prohibit any such transfer that would not be consistent with these
regulations.
   Q.   Requirements For Covenants, Conditions And Restrictions: When common
areas such as private streets, drainageways and conservation areas are held in
common ownership and maintained by a homeowners' association, the developer
shall:
      1.   Provide the city with a copy of the covenants and restrictions
governing the association to be recorded with the final plat.
      2.   Include the following declaration in the covenants, conditions and
restrictions when private streets and drainageways are proposed:
         a.   All private streets and drainageways depicted on the plat shall
remain private and shall not be dedicated to public use until such time as:
            (1)   Approval of any such dedication is approved by the property
owner through the homeowners' association;
            (2)   The city council consents to accepting this public
dedication; and
            (3)   The streets are upgraded to current city standards before
being dedicated to public use.
      3.   Formally establish the association upon final plat approval.
      4.   Require mandatory membership for homeowners.
      5.   Require that the association be responsible for maintenance of
common areas, pursuant to a comprehensive maintenance plan.
      6.   Provide a means for obtaining adequate financial support for the
association.
      7.   Require that the city be given thirty (30) days' written notice if
responsibility for the common areas is to be transferred.
   R.   Phasing:
      1.   Phasing shall be approved as part of tentative plat approval and
depicted on tentative and final plats.
      2.   Subdivision phasing shall be designed so that each phase can
function independently if the other phases are not completed.
      3.   All improvements shall be completed for a phase before any
assurances guaranteeing improvements are released.
      4.   Improvements required to address regional and area needs shall be
completed as part of the first phase unless otherwise expressly authorized by
the city council.
   S.   Improvement Plans:
      1.   Three (3) complete sets of engineering plans and subsequent
revisions shall be submitted for approval by the city engineer.
      2.   Improvement plans shall include all road, drainage, fire protection,
utilities, road and regulatory signs and markings and other improvements
required for approval of the tentative and final plats.
      3.   At a minimum, improvement plans and regulatory signs and marking
plans for the first subdivision phase shall be substantially approved by the
city engineer prior to final plat approval. Road design and regulatory signage
shall be provided for the entire subdivision.
      4.   The city council shall approve regulatory signs for public roads as
part of final plat approval.
      5.   Improvement plans shall provide for and conform to the requirements
in the Cochise County road construction standards and specifications for public
improvements, floodplain regulations and the city land clearing ordinance.
      6.   Prior to approval by the city engineer, the developer shall provide
written confirmation that the plans have been reviewed and approved by the
pertinent utility companies.
      7.   Unless the city council authorizes a specific amendment to the
approved plans, council approval of the final plat shall be conditional upon
the obligation to construct all improvements as indicated on the approved
plans. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-9: LOT SALES, IMPROVEMENT SECURITY AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Securing Subdivision Improvements: The purpose of this section is to
describe the acceptable methods to guarantee that the required on site and off
site improvements and utilities are provided before lots are sold. Unless all
required improvements are completed, and approved by the city before final plat
approval, some method of security to guarantee improvements shall be approved
at the time of final plat approval. Any such agreement between the city and the
subdivider, title company, escrow agent, surety or financial institution shall:
      Be in favor of the city.
      Be continuous in form.
      Designate the city as the beneficiary.
      Be approved by the city attorney.
      1.   Assurance Agreement: An assurance agreement (third party trust
agreement) is the most commonly used method of providing assurances.
         a.   The city council approves assurance agreements at the time of
final plat approval.
         b.   The title to the subdivided property is placed in trust with a
third party escrow agency or trust company authorized to do business in the
state of Arizona along with an agreement between the trustee and the city that
title to any lot or parcel within the subdivision will not be transferred until
written approval is given by the city for the release or partial release of
property held in trust. The city will not authorize any such release until the
necessary improvements have been completed.
         c.   The agreement must contain an accurate legal description of the
subdivision.
         d.   Special conditions or improvements unique to the subdivision
shall be listed in an attached exhibit.
         e.   The agreement must be recorded at the time of final plat
recordation.
         f.   The agreement must provide authorization for city to abandon the
subdivision final plat and convert the property to unsubdivided land if the
required improvements fail to be installed in compliance with the city's
standard specifications within three (3) years:
         g.   The planning director, or representative, under authority vested
by the city council, may extend the time specified to complete improvements for
one year if the purposes of these regulations would still be served.
         h.   The city council may extend the time specified to complete
improvements for additional terms if the purposes of these regulations would
still be served.
         i.   The subdivider must demonstrate that progress has been made to
complete improvements or that an undue hardship would result.
         j.   If the subdivision is sold, a new assurance agreement shall be
executed concurrently with the sale.
         k.   Assurances shall be released as follows:
            (1)   After final plat approval, lots for five (5) model homes per
phase can be permitted to the developer or duly authorized sales representative
prior to completion of improvements. These homes shall not be sold to
individual property owners or occupied for residential use until they are
released for sale. Model homes will be permitted by phase and additional model
homes shall not be permitted for subsequent phases until improvements are
completed in the previous phase.
            (2)   Upon the recommendation of the city engineer, the planning
director, or representative, under authority hereby vested by the city council,
may release assurances upon a determination that all improvements are completed
in accordance with all conditions of final plat approval.
            (3)   The planning director shall record a form in the county
recorder's office indicating which lots have been released from an assurance
agreement within a recorded subdivision.
            (4)   Partial releases shall only be approved for completed phases.
      2.   Surety (Performance) Bond, Irrevocable Letter Of Credit, Cash Or
Certified Check:
         a.   A surety bond, irrevocable letter of credit, cash or certified
check are all acceptable methods to ensure completion of improvements provided
that they are submitted and accepted by the city before final plat approval.
         b.   A surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit used for security
must be executed by a financial institution or insurer licensed to do business
in the state of Arizona.
         c.   The total amount to be bonded or obligated must equal the cost
estimate for the required improvements. A professional civil engineer licensed
to practice in the state of Arizona must prepare the estimates and improvement
plans. The estimates shall include all expenses that would be incurred by a
third party if completing the construction, including materials, equipment,
labor, engineering and supervision costs and an appropriate cost inflation
factor. The estimates and preliminary construction plans shall be transmitted
to the city engineer for inspection and approval. The estimates shall be in the
amount necessary for the city to construct all required improvements in the
event the subdivider defaults.
         d.   Seventy five percent (75%) of the lots can be sold and building
permits issued upon recordation of the final plat and acceptance of the
required security. The city council shall specify a completion date for
improvements.
         e.   If the subdivider fails to complete the improvements upon which
final plat approval was based, the city council may, after reasonable notice to
the subdivider, order the cessation of all future land sales until the
improvements are completed. The council at its discretion may demand payment of
all security and proceed as determined necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
         f.   The city shall return the security upon acceptance of public
improvements which shall occur within one year after completion of the
improvements.
      3.   Other Methods Of Security: The subdivider may request that the city
council approve a substitute means of improvement security. Such a request must
be accompanied by the appropriate agreements and any related submittals.
   B.   Construction And Inspections Of Improvements: Improvements required as
part of subdivision approval are the subdivider's responsibility. The city
council shall not consider the acceptance, for maintenance, of any subdivision
streets or other subdivision improvements unless they have been constructed and
improved to the minimum Cochise County road construction standards and
specifications for public improvements, floodplain regulations for Cochise
County or other standards set forth in the subdivision regulations or approved
by the city council. Inspection and acceptance of improvements shall proceed as
follows:
      1.   A right of way permit application shall be submitted for streets
dedicated to the public, based on the approved improvement plans, before
construction is started.
      2.   The subdivider shall have a professional civil engineer licensed to
practice in the state of Arizona supervise the construction of public and
private improvements.
      3.   The subdivision engineer shall invite the highway and floodplain
inspector and planning director or designated representative to a
preconstruction meeting and ensure that highway and floodplain inspectors are
involved before any construction is started. At this meeting inspections
throughout construction shall be scheduled as agreed upon between the
subdivision engineer and the highway and floodplain inspector.
      4.   The subdivision engineer shall give the inspectors two (2) days'
notice for inspections.
      5.   Inspections shall be conducted as described in the Cochise County
road construction standards and specifications for public improvements.
      6.   Following completion of all required improvements for the
subdivision or any phase, a certificate signed and sealed by the subdivision
engineer, shall be submitted to the city engineer. This certificate shall:
         a.   Certify that all improvements have been completed in substantial
accordance with the provisions of these subdivision regulations and all other
applicable city regulations and in accordance with the plans approved by the
city engineer upon which approval of the final plat was based.
         b.   Include a report of the date that the subdivision engineer
conducted inspections.
         c.   Include a copy of the ADEQ "Certificate Of Approval Of
Construction" for water and wastewater systems.
      7.   Upon receipt of the certification of all completed improvements
provided by the project engineer, the city inspection team, to include the city
engineer or designated representatives (engineering and technical services
engineer and inspector and operations supervisor) and the planning director or
designated representatives, shall conduct a final inspection of improvements.
      8.   The city engineer shall give final approval if based on the report
from the inspection team improvements are satisfactorily completed in
accordance with the approved improvement plans.
      9.   The city will formally accept public improvements into the city's
maintenance system one year after final inspection upon the determination by
the city engineer that no additional public improvements are required. The
applicant is responsible for any repair or reconstruction if the public
improvements fail to meet the required standards during this one year period.
      10.   An inspection fee for public improvements in the amount as set
forth in the adopted highway and floodplain fee schedule as amended from time
to time shall be required.
      11.   An inspection fee for private improvements in the amount as set
forth in the adopted planning department fee schedule as amended from time to
time shall be required.
      12.   Existing roads that are incorporated into the subdivision
circulation system and that serve existing development shall be maintained to
at least the current level of service during construction of subdivision
improvements. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-10: ALTERNATIVE RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION OPTIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Application: The purpose of this section is to describe
alternative residential subdivision options that address particular situations
and offer some flexibility of design. For some low impact developments, density
bonuses, exceptions to the general submittal and review process and alternative
requirements are provided.
   B.   Minor Expedited Residential Subdivisions:
      1.   Purpose:
         a.   Provide a more cost effective option for property owners creating
small subdivisions.
         b.   Encourage landowners to participate in the subdivision process by
minimizing processing costs and streamlining the review and approval process.
         c.   Provide density bonuses for subdivisions that access directly
onto city or ADOT maintained paved streets or construct off site streets that
meet city or ADOT standards.
      2.   Description Of A Minor Expedited Residential Subdivision: A minor
subdivision is a subdivision that meets the following criteria:
         a.   The subdivision consists of twenty (20) lots or less without the
density bonus or a maximum of twenty seven (27) lots with the density bonus.
         b.   Lots sizes are flexible so long as health and safety issues,
including water and sanitation are properly addressed.
         c.   Except for road crossings, construction is not proposed within a
designated floodplain.
         d.   A thirty four percent (34%) density is allowed in zoning
districts with a minimum lot size of thirty six thousand (36,000) square feet
or greater if access to the subdivision is or will be from a paved road.
      3.   Density Bonus For Minor Expedited Residential Subdivisions:
   COMPARISON OF MINOR EXPEDITED SUBDIVISIONS
   WITH AND WITHOUT THE DENSITY BONUS:
   RU-4 ZONING DISTRICT
 
Acres Minor Subdivisions           Minor Subdivisions
      Without Density Bonus        With Density Bonus
80    27 lots (80 acres + 4 acres) 27 lots (20 x 1.34)
60    15 lots (60 cares + 4 acres) 20 lots (15 x 1.34)
40    10 lots (40 acres + 4 acres) 13 lots (10 x 1.34)
20    5 lots (20 acres + 4 acres)  7 lots (5 x 1.34)
 
      4.   Exceptions To The General Submittal, Review Procedures And
Requirements: As noted below, certain general submittals, review procedures and
requirements do not apply to the minor expedited residential subdivisions.
         a.   No processing fee is charged.
         b.   The tentative and final plat submittals are combined into a
single plat. The plat can be scheduled for review and approval by the city
council at the next available meeting after approval by the planning and zoning
commission.
         c.   A drainage report, rather than a hydrology study is required, as
defined in the floodplain regulations for Cochise County.
         d.   A traffic analysis report is not required.
         e.   Where the subdivision connects to a city maintained or ADOT paved
road, off site road improvements are not required, except that the apron
connection(s) of any subdivision streets to public roads serving the
subdivisions shall be improved to Cochise County road construction standards
and specifications for public improvements or ADOT requirements.
         f.   On site streets can be built to the Cochise County road
construction standards and specifications for public improvements, low volume
road standards.
         g.   A second means of access from a public road is not required.
         h.   Lot sizes are flexible. The minimum lot size is one acre (43,560
square feet) unless lots are connected to an approved water and sewer system or
some other ADEQ approved alternative wastewater treatment system other than a
septic system.
   C.   Residential Conservation Subdivisions:
      1.   Purpose Of A Residential Conservation Subdivision: Development under
this provision is optional. It is intended to encourage: a) an innovative site
planning design in harmony with the natural features and historic uses such as
ranching and compatible with constraints of specific sites; b) more cost
effective development due to decreased grading and more efficient servicing of
the subdivision with utilities, streets and other essential services; and c)
conservation areas for subdivision or public purposes.
      2.   Description Of A Residential Conservation Subdivision:
         a.   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the site shall be
conservation areas. If the subdivision is proposed to be done in phases,
conservation areas for each phase shall be fifty percent (50%). Conservation
areas are intended to conserve, in perpetuity, resources that might otherwise
be permanently altered by development. These areas shall comprise no less than
forty (40) acres for one subdivision.
         b.   In zoning districts with a minimum lot size of thirty six
thousand (36,000) square feet or greater, a thirty four percent (34%) density
bonus is provided so long as the subdivision complies with the design and
improvement requirements of this section.
         c.   In zoning districts with a minimum lot size of thirty six
thousand (36,000) square feet or greater, a fifty percent (50%) density bonus
is provided, so long as the subdivision is provided with: a water utility
company; a sewer system designed for effluent recharge and/or reuse; fire
protection, and complies with the design and improvement requirements of this
section.
         d.   Lot sizes are flexible and do not need to meet the minimum lot
size of the zoning district except that the minimum individual lot size must
conform to requirements for sewage disposal, water distribution systems and
fire protection described in section
13-1-8 of this chapter.
         e.   Density bonuses cannot be applied to areas within a previously
approved master development plan.
      3.   Density Bonus:
   EXAMPLE OF DENSITY BONUS FOR A
   1,000 ACRE PARCEL, ZONED RU-4
 
Subdivision               Conservation             Number Of Lots
Type                      Areas                    And Density Bonus
                                                   Maximum 250 lots (may be
Conventional              None                     less after calculating
                                                   roads) (no density bonus)
Conservation              50% conservation areas = 335 lots (34% bonus: 250
                          500 acres                lots x 1.34)
Conservation with sewer,  50% conservation areas = 375 lots (50% bonus: 250
water and fire protection 500 acres                lots x 1.5)
 
      4.   Conservation Area Definition And Design:
    CONSERVATION AREA: That area of land not occupied by buildings, towers,
walls, billboards, or manmade impervious surfaces that is set aside or reserved
in perpetuity for historic ranching use and/or public or subdivision residents'
enjoyment or use. It shall be an integral part of the design within the
boundaries of the subdivision and under common ownership or easement.
         a.   The following categories generally should be included in the
conservation area:
            (1)   Wetlands and cienegas;
            (2)   Wash corridors, including a minimum of fifty feet (50') from
the primary banks;
            (3)   FEMA designated flood zone A and other special flood hazard
areas;
            (4)   Hillsides with slopes greater than thirty percent (30%);
            (5)   Ridgelines;
            (6)   Significant wildlife habitat areas and corridors;
               (A)   Cultural or archaeological sites listed on the national or
state register or in local land use plans; and
               (B)   Significant stands of predominantly unspoiled native and
other historically adapted vegetation.
         b.   The conservation area calculation may include:
            (1)   Other cultural or archaeological sites;
            (2)   Paths or trails not intended for vehicular access within the
public right of way and to and through the conservation area;
            (3)   Historic ranching and grazing areas other than irrigated
agricultural fields (accessory ranch structures or service streets may also be
included);
            (4)   Community gardening;
            (5)   Passive outdoor recreation such as hiking, bicycling or
equestrian trails; or
            (6)   Other similar compatible uses.
         c.   The conservation area calculation shall not include:
            (1)   Any public or private streets accessing the lots;
            (2)   Outdoor storage areas and junkyards;
            (3)   Golf courses; and
            (4)   Other uses or structures incompatible with the intent of
conservation areas.
         d.   Conservation Area Design Considerations:
            (1)   Conservation areas should be as accessible as feasible
through direct access or provision of a trail system.
            (2)   Conservation areas should be used to provide access to
adjoining public lands where historic access exists. This access may be limited
to subdivision residents, except where historic public access exists, in which
case it shall be public access. Access may be limited to unmotorized travel
only.
            (3)   Conservation areas can be used to buffer the subdivision from
adjoining uses, especially higher density or higher intensity uses.
            (4)   The utility of conservation areas shall be determined by the
size, shape, topographic and location requirements of the particular purpose
proposed for the conservation areas and shall be integrally related to the
development and of such a size and slope as to make it useful for its intended
purpose.
      5.   Exceptions/Additions To The General Submittal, Review Procedures And
Requirements: As noted below, certain procedures and requirements for the
conservation subdivision differ from those described in sections
13-1-6,
13-1-7,
13-1-8 of this chapter.
         a.   Preliminary Meeting, Existing Resources And Site Context Drawing:
A preliminary meeting will be held to familiarize staff with the project and
the applicant with the conservation subdivision process. An existing resources
inventory and site context drawing is needed at this meeting to show how the
new subdivision fits into the surrounding landscape and show features that
cross parcel lines or should be extended through the subject parcel to maintain
existing circulation patterns, trails, significant water recharge, vegetation
or conservation areas and corridors. This drawing is an informal drawing that
serves as the first step in determining the areas to be maintained as
conservation areas. Ten (10) copies of the site context drawing shall be
submitted ten (10) days before a preliminary review meeting to be scheduled by
the planning director. The drawing must be drawn to scale and clear and
legible, but does not need to be drawn by an engineer (an aerial photo can be
used).
The applicant should be prepared to discuss the following information about the
site and the surrounding area within three hundred feet (300') from the
boundaries of the site:
            (1)   Adjacent development and zoning.
            (2)   Existing road circulation system in areas adjacent to the
site.
            (3)   Existing circulation systems for alternative modes of
transportation such as pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian trails or sidewalks
in areas adjacent to the site.
            (4)   Existing watercourses, stream corridors, floodplains, ponds
and wetlands on site and adjacent to the site.
            (5)   Existing areas conserved as part of adjacent developments.
            (6)   Public land adjacent to the site.
            (7)   Ridgelines on site and adjacent to the site.
            (8)   Meadows on site and adjacent to the site.
            (9)   Significant stands of drought tolerant vegetation, native or
historically adapted to Cochise County on site and adjacent to the site.
            (10)   General topography.
            (11)   Significant water recharge areas.
            (12)   Hillsides with slopes thirty percent (30%) or greater.
            (13)   Existing cultural, archaeological or historic sites.
            (14)   Scenic corridors identified in adopted city land use plans
if any.
         b.   Site Visit: After the existing resources inventory and site
context drawing have been reviewed with the subdivision committee, the
subdivider shall arrange a staff visit to the site to familiarize those
reviewing the application with the property. This visit provides an informal
setting to discuss preliminary site design and location of conservation areas.
The visit should include, but is not limited to, staff from the planning and
highway and floodplain departments, a planning and zoning commissioner if
possible, the subdivider, the property owner or seller if available or someone
else familiar with the property and the subdivision engineer.
         c.   Site Layout Meeting: Based on the existing resources inventory,
site context drawing and the site visit, the next step is to develop a
preliminary site layout. This can be done as an overlay(s) to the existing
resource/site analysis map. It is to be done in conjunction with the
subdivision committee at a working meeting.
Step 1: Identify Significant Conservation Areas: Sketch in the significant
areas listed in 603.04 that shall remain as mandatory conservation areas. The
existing resources inventory and site context drawing and site visit provide
the information needed to identify these areas.
Step 2: Draw In Remaining Interconnected Conservation Areas: It is likely the
conservation areas defined in step 1 will not make up the required fifty
percent (50%) of the site. The next step is to draw in the remaining
conservation areas. These conservation areas shall be designed as described in
section 603.04.
Step 3: Locate Housing Sites: Once steps 1 and 2 are completed, the area
remaining is developable area. In this step, housing sites are located in the
developable areas. Locating conservation areas first makes it possible to
select housing sites with the best views and access to the conservation areas.
Step 4: Locate Streets And Trails: Once the conservation areas and housing
locations have been identified, streets and trails are more easily sited with
less impact to the terrain and special features of the site.
Step 5: Draw In Lot lines: The final step is to draw in the lot lines. Lot
sizes are flexible, with a minimum lot size of one acre (43,560 square feet) if
individual septic systems and wells are used on individual lots.
         d.   Conformance With Site Layout Plan; Formal Tentative And Final
Plat Process: The remaining process follows the requirements described in
sections
13-1-6 through
13-1-9 of this chapter. Additionally, along with these general requirements,
the tentative and final plats must be in substantial conformance with the site
layout agreed upon by the subdivision committee in the previous steps.
Conservation areas as agreed upon in the site layout meeting must be depicted
on the tentative and final plats with a note calculating the percentage of
conservation area provided.
Example: Residential Conservation Subdivision:
(Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-11: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General Rules: Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
herein shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common
usage and to give these regulations their most reasonable application.
      1.   City council means the common council of the city of Tombstone also
known as the council.
      2.   Building includes the word structure.
      3.   Commission means the city of Tombstone planning and zoning
commission.
      4.   Common usage shall be used to interpret all words and terms unless
otherwise defined.
      5.   Lot includes the words plot or parcel.
      6.   Person includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company as well as an individual.
      7.   Shall and must are mandatory and the words may, can and should are
permissive.
      8.   Applicant includes subdivider, developer, property owner and
authorized representative.
      9.   Used or occupied includes the words intended, designed or arranged
to be used or occupied.
      10.   The words road and street can be used interchangeably.
   B.   Definitions:
   ABANDONED: Said of streets, public ways, easements or rights of way when the
city council, by proper actions abrogates all public rights to said streets,
public ways, easements or rights of way.
   ACRE: An area of land comprising forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet.
   ACTING IN CONCERT: Evidence of collaborating to pursue a concerted plan.
   ADOT: Arizona department of transportation.
   ADVERTISING: The attempt by publication, dissemination, exhibition,
solicitation or circulation, oral or written, or for broadcast on radio or
television or other electronic media to induce directly or indirectly any
person to enter into any obligation or acquire any title or interest in lands
subject to the provisions of this chapter including the land sales contract to
be used and any photographs, drawings or artist's presentations of physical
conditions or facilities existing or to exist on the property.
   AGENT: Person representing the applicant during subdivision project. An
agent shall provide a notarized authorization of agency from the property owner
(s).
   APPROVAL, CONDITIONAL: An affirmative action by the commission or the
council indicating that approval shall be forthcoming upon satisfaction of
certain specified stipulations.
   APPROVAL, FINAL: Unconditional approval of the final plat by the city
council, as evidenced by certification on said plat by the city clerk.
   APPROVAL, TENTATIVE: Approval of the tentative plat by the commission.
   AREA OF JURISDICTION: The jurisdictional limits of the city of Tombstone.
   BLOCK: That property or group of lots entirely surrounded by streams, rail,
streets, unsubdivided acreage, or other barrier, except an alley, of such size
as to interrupt the continuity of development on both sides thereof.
   COMMON AREAS: Those areas reserved for the common use of all subdivision
property owners. Common areas can include commonly owned conservation areas,
private streets and other private infrastructure and areas maintained in
agricultural or other conservation easements.
   COMMON PROMOTIONAL PLAN: A plan, undertaken by a person or a group of
persons acting in concert, to offer lots for sale or lease. If the land is
offered for sale by a person or group of persons acting in concert, and the
land is contiguous or is known, designated or advertised as a common unit or by
a common name, the land is presumed, without regard to the number of lots
covered by each individual offering, as being offered for sale or lease as part
of a common promotional plan. Separate subdividers selling lots or parcels in
separately platted subdivisions within a master planned community shall not be
deemed to be offering their combined lots for sale or lease as part of a common
promotional plan.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A recorded document preserving land in perpetuity in
its present, repaired or enhanced state as described in the easement document.
   COST ESTIMATES: The estimated cost of subdivision improvements including an
appropriate inflation factor, approved by the director of public works, to be
used to determine the amount needed to secure improvements.
   COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS: A privately executed, recorded and
enforced document designed to govern the use of lots within a subdivision. The
city cannot legally enforce covenants unless specific restrictions are denoted
on the final plat as a condition of final plat approval.
   DEDICATION: The giving by the owner of private property for public use, and
the acceptance by the proper public authority.
   DEFENSIBLE SPACE: Refers to an area around the perimeter of structures or
developments that is designed to be a key point of defense against encroaching
fires.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the owner to the public or some particular person or
part of the public of a parcel of land set aside or over which a liberty,
privilege or advantage in land without profit exists, but distinct from the
ownership of said land.
   ENGINEER, CITY: The city engineer who is the director of public works or a
designated representative.
   ENGINEER, SUBDIVISION: The project engineer licensed to practice in Arizona
and authorized by the property owner to oversee the project including
construction of improvements.
   ENGINEERING IMPROVEMENT PLANS: Plans, profiles, maps, cross sections, and
other required details necessary for the construction of public improvements,
prepared by an engineer licensed to practice in the state of Arizona in
accordance with the approved tentative plat and in compliance with standards of
design and construction of the city.
Exception: Any parcel of land located within the boundaries of a subdivision
that is not included in the plat.
   FEES: As set forth in the adopted fee schedules. All checks are payable to
the treasurer of the city of Tombstone.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS: The floodplain regulations for Cochise County
adopted by the flood control district and as amended from time to time.
   METES AND BOUNDS: The legal description of a lot or parcel of land by
courses and distances.
   OWNER: The person or persons holding title by deed to land, or holding title
as vendees under a land sale contract, or holding any other title of record.
   PARKS: Include turf field game areas, hard surface game courts, multiple use
areas, circulation, parking, recreation service buildings and other park
related uses.
   PAVED: To include double bituminous surface treatment and asphaltic
concrete.
   PLAN, COMPREHENSIVE: Plan and maps adopted by the city council for the
guidance of growth in the city.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR: The director of public works.
   PLANS, OTHER: Other plans and maps adopted by the city council as amendments
to the comprehensive plan for the guidance of growth in a specific area of the
city of Tombstone. The term plan includes community, regional, neighborhood,
area, master development and transportation or circulation plans.
   PLAT, FINAL: A map of all or a part of a subdivision providing substantial
conformance to an approved tentative plat prepared in accordance with the
provisions of these subdivision regulations and bearing all certificates of
approval as required by these subdivision regulations and duly recorded by the
Cochise County recorder.
   PLAT, TENTATIVE: A preliminary map, including supporting data, indicating a
proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with the provision of
these subdivision regulations.
   RIGHTS OF WAY: The entire dedicated tract or strip of land that is for the
use of the public for circulation and services, the length and width of which
shall be sufficient to provide adequate accommodation for all physical features
to be included therein in accordance with the Cochise County road construction
standards and specifications for public improvements.
   ROADWAY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: Refers to the Cochise County road
construction standards and specifications for public improvements, a set of
regulations setting forth details, specifications, and requirements established
by the city engineer, approved and amended from time to time by the board of
supervisors, for design and construction of improvements within established
city road rights of way and within private subdivision street easements.
   RURAL SUBDIVISION: Average density of one dwelling unit per two (2) acres or
less dense.
   SIGNS AND MARKINGS: Street name signs including directionals, stop signs,
speed limit and other regulatory signs and markings. Signs shall comply with
"Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD) and all regulatory signs
shall be approved by the city council as part of final plat approval.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS TOWARDS FINAL PLAT APPROVAL: Substantial progress
requires that a final plat has been submitted for review and that progress has
been made addressing any conditions of tentative plat approval.
   TRACT: Any portion of land included within the subdivision that is not used
as an individual parcel usually denoted A, B, C, etc. The purpose of a tract
shall be denoted on the tentative and final plats. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-12: ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE AND SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Application: These subdivision regulations shall apply and govern the
subdivision of all land within the area of jurisdiction. Where these
subdivision regulations impose a greater restriction upon land improvement,
development, or use, than is imposed or required by existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, these subdivision regulations shall control.
   B.   Approval Required: Until a tentative plat and a final plat of a
subdivision shall have been approved and recorded in accordance with these
subdivision regulations, no person proposing a subdivision within the area of
jurisdiction shall subdivide or file a plat for record, or sell any part of
said subdivision.
   C.   Zoning: All proposed subdivisions shall be designed to meet the
requirements for the zoning district within which it is located. In the event
that an amendment or variance from zoning requirements is requested, said
action shall be initiated by the property owner or his authorized agent. The
processing of the tentative plat shall not proceed until a complete application
for such zoning amendments or variances required in relation to said tentative
plat has been submitted. A final plat shall not be approved until such zoning
amendments or variances have been approved.
   D.   Severability: If any provisions of these subdivision regulations be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions that can be
given effect without the invalid provision, and to this end the provisions of
these subdivision regulations are declared to be severable.
   E.   Conflicting Provisions Repealed: All other ordinances, regulations,
resolutions and parts thereof which conflict with the provisions of these
subdivision regulations, to the extent of such conflict and no further are
hereby repealed.
   F.   Amending The Regulations: The city council may, after receiving a
recommendation from the commission and after holding a public hearing as
required by law, amend these subdivision regulations. Amendments may be
initiated pursuant to an application or by the commission on its own motion.
   G.   Effective Date: These subdivision regulations shall become effective
thirty (30) days after adoption by city council and remain in full force
thereafter. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
13-1-13: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Penalties: Upon submittal of a complaint that a parcel of land is being
subdivided or that subdivision land is being sold in violation of this
ordinance, the planning and zoning commission shall determine if a person(s),
firm, corporation, or other legal entity alone or in concert acted to divide a
parcel of land or sell subdivision lots either on their own initiative or by
using a series of owners or conveyances or common promotional plan or by any
other method that ultimately resulted in the division of the lands into a
subdivision. Upon determination that an illegal subdivision has been created,
as soon as the first lot is offered for sale, the planning and zoning
commission shall:
      1.   Provide findings to the Arizona department of real estate.
      2.   Prepare and record with the city of Tombstone a "notice of
violation" that specifically identifies any lot or lots for which building
permits would not be issued under this rule as a result of the failure to
comply with the requirements of these regulations or the creation of any
unauthorized lots.
      3.   Ensure that no building permit shall be issued for the erection or
use of any structure in a subdivision unless that subdivision conforms with
these regulations; the property is exempted from these regulations as result of
meeting each of the conditions of section 104.C; there is a vested 1  right to
continue to develop and sell property in the subdivision; or the applicant is
an owner of one or more lots in a subdivision created on or before January 1,
1975, is not a "subdivider" or operating under a common promotional plan with a
subdivider and the property is not subject to any "notice of violation".
      4.   Revoke any previously issued permits based upon misrepresentation of
the status of the subdivision.
   B.   Legal Procedures: The office of the city attorney shall upon order of
the city council, or may on its own initiative, immediately commence all
necessary actions or proceedings and shall take such other lawful steps and
shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such
relief as will abate, enjoin and restrain any person, firm, or corporation from
setting up, developing, erecting, building, moving, or maintaining any such
building or using any property contrary to the provisions of these subdivision
regulations, or otherwise violating same.
      1.   Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity who violates
any provision of these subdivision regulations shall be guilty of a class 2
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than the amount set forth by law for such offenses or by imprisonment in
the county jail for a period set forth by law, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
      2.   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of these subdivision regulations.
      3.   All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. The conviction and punishment of any person hereunder shall not
relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions. In addition to other remedies provided in this section, any
adjacent or neighboring property owner who shall be especially damaged by
violations of any provision of these subdivision regulations may institute
against a subdivider, in addition to other remedies provided by law,
injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action, proceeding or
proceedings to prevent, abate or remove such unlawful erection, construction,
or use of the subject property. (Ord. 2005-01, 2-8-2005)
 
Notes
  1. For purposes of these regulations there is a vested right to continue to
  develop or sell a subdivision that was approved on or after January 1, 1975,
1 and that has been or is being developed in conformance with these
  regulations.
   
